   The Fulton County Grand Jury said Friday an investigation
of Atlanta's recent primary election produced "no evidence" that
any irregularities took place.   The jury further said in term-end
presentments that the City Executive Committee, which had over-all
charge of the election, "deserves the praise and thanks of the
City of Atlanta" for the manner in which the election was conducted.
   The September-October term jury had been charged by Fulton
Superior Court Judge Durwood Pye to investigate reports of possible
"irregularities" in the hard-fought primary which was won by
Mayor-nominate Ivan Allen Jr&.   "Only a relative handful
of such reports was received", the jury said, "considering the
widespread interest in the election, the number of voters and the size
of this city".   The jury said it did find that many of Georgia's
registration and election laws "are outmoded or inadequate
and often ambiguous".   It recommended that Fulton legislators
act "to have these laws studied and revised to the end of modernizing
and improving them".   The grand jury commented on a number
of other topics, among them the Atlanta and Fulton County purchasing
departments which it said "are well operated and follow generally
accepted practices which inure to the best interest of both governments".
#MERGER PROPOSED# However, the jury said it believes "these
two offices should be combined to achieve greater efficiency and reduce
the cost of administration".   The City Purchasing Department,
the jury said, "is lacking in experienced clerical personnel
as a result of city personnel policies". It urged that the city "take
steps to remedy" this problem.   Implementation of Georgia's
automobile title law was also recommended by the outgoing jury.
   It urged that the next Legislature "provide enabling funds
and re-set the effective date so that an orderly implementation of
the law may be effected".   The grand jury took a swipe at the
State Welfare Department's handling of federal funds granted for
child welfare services in foster homes.   "This is one of the
major items in the Fulton County general assistance program", the
jury said, but the State Welfare Department "has seen fit to distribute
these funds through the welfare departments of all the counties
in the state with the exception of Fulton County, which receives
none of this money.   The jurors said they realize "a proportionate
distribution of these funds might disable this program in our less
populous counties".   Nevertheless, "we feel that in the
future Fulton County should receive some portion of these available
funds", the jurors said. "Failure to do this will continue to place
a disproportionate burden" on Fulton taxpayers.   The jury
also commented on the Fulton ordinary's court which has been under
fire for its practices in the appointment of appraisers, guardians and
administrators and the awarding of fees and compensation. #WARDS PROTECTED#
The jury said it found the court "has incorporated into
its operating procedures the recommendations" of two previous grand
juries, the Atlanta Bar Association and an interim citizens committee.
   "These actions should serve to protect in fact and in effect
the court's wards from undue costs and its appointed and elected
servants from unmeritorious criticisms", the jury said.   Regarding
Atlanta's new multi-million-dollar airport, the jury recommended
"that when the new management takes charge Jan& 1 the airport
be operated in a manner that will eliminate political influences".
   The jury did not elaborate, but it added that "there should
be periodic surveillance of the pricing practices of the concessionaires
for the purpose of keeping the prices reasonable". #ASK JAIL
DEPUTIES# On other matters, the jury recommended that: _(1)_
Four additional deputies be employed at the Fulton County Jail and
"a doctor, medical intern or extern be employed for night and weekend
duty at the jail". _(2)_ Fulton legislators "work with city
officials to pass enabling legislation that will permit the establishment
of a fair and equitable" pension plan for city employes.
   The jury praised the administration and operation of the Atlanta
Police Department, the Fulton Tax Commissioner's Office, the Bellwood
and Alpharetta prison farms, Grady Hospital and the Fulton
Health Department.
   Mayor William B& Hartsfield filed suit for divorce from his
wife,
Pearl Williams Hartsfield, in Fulton Superior Court Friday.
His petition charged mental cruelty.   The couple was married
Aug& 2, 1913. They have a son, William Berry Jr&, and a daughter,
Mrs& J& M& Cheshire of Griffin.   Attorneys
for the mayor said that an amicable property settlement has been agreed
upon.   The petition listed the mayor's occupation as "attorney"
and his age as 71. It listed his wife's age as 74 and place
of birth as Opelika, Ala&.   The petition said that the couple
has not lived together as man and wife for more than a year.
   The Hartsfield home is at 637 E& Pelham Rd& ~NE.
   Henry L& Bowden was listed on the petition as the mayor's attorney.
   Hartsfield has been mayor of Atlanta, with exception
of one brief interlude, since 1937. His political career goes back to
his election to city council in 1923.   The mayor's present
term of office expires Jan& 1. He will be succeeded by Ivan Allen
Jr&, who became a candidate in the Sept& 13 primary after Mayor
Hartsfield announced that he would not run for reelection.
   Georgia Republicans are getting strong encouragement to enter
a candidate in the 1962 governor's race, a top official said Wednesday.
   Robert Snodgrass, state ~GOP chairman, said a meeting
held Tuesday night in Blue Ridge brought enthusiastic responses
from the audience.   State Party Chairman James W& Dorsey
added that enthusiasm was picking up for a state rally to be held Sept&
8 in Savannah at which newly elected Texas Sen& John Tower
will be the featured speaker.   In the Blue Ridge meeting,
the audience was warned that entering a candidate for governor would force
it to take petitions out into voting precincts to obtain the signatures
of registered voters.   Despite the warning, there was a
unanimous vote to enter a candidate, according to Republicans who attended.
   When the crowd was asked whether it wanted to wait one
more term to make the race, it voted no- and there were no dissents.
   The largest hurdle the Republicans would have to face is a
state law which says that before making a first race, one of two alternative
courses must be taken: _1._ Five per cent of the voters
in each county must sign petitions requesting that the Republicans be
allowed to place names of candidates on the general election ballot,
or _2._ The Republicans must hold a primary under the county unit
system- a system which the party opposes in its platform.
   Sam Caldwell, State Highway Department public relations director,
resigned Tuesday to work for Lt& Gov& Garland Byrd's
campaign.   Caldwell's resignation had been expected for some
time. He will be succeeded by Rob Ledford of Gainesville, who has
been an assistant more than three years. When the gubernatorial campaign
starts, Caldwell is expected to become a campaign coordinator for
Byrd.
   The Georgia Legislature will wind up its 1961 session Monday
and head for home- where some of the highway bond money it approved
will follow shortly.   Before adjournment Monday afternoon, the
Senate is expected to approve a study of the number of legislators
allotted to rural and urban areas to determine what adjustments should
be made.   Gov& Vandiver is expected to make the traditional
visit to both chambers as they work toward adjournment. Vandiver likely
will mention the $100 million highway bond issue approved earlier
in the session as his first priority item. #CONSTRUCTION BONDS# Meanwhile,
it was learned the State Highway Department is very near
being ready to issue the first $30 million worth of highway reconstruction
bonds.   The bond issue will go to the state courts for a
friendly test suit to test the validity of the act, and then the sales
will begin and contracts let for repair work on some of Georgia's
most heavily traveled highways.   A Highway Department source
said there also is a plan there to issue some $3 million to $4 million
worth of Rural Roads Authority bonds for rural road construction work.
#A REVOLVING FUND# The department apparently intends to make
the Rural Roads Authority a revolving fund under which new bonds would
be issued every time a portion of the old ones are paid off by tax
authorities.   Vandiver opened his race for governor in 1958 with
a battle in the Legislature against the issuance of $50 million worth
of additional rural roads bonds proposed by then Gov& Marvin
Griffin.   The Highway Department source told The Constitution,
however, that Vandiver has not been consulted yet about the plans
to issue the new rural roads bonds.
   Schley County Rep& B& D& Pelham will offer a resolution
Monday in the House to rescind the body's action of Friday in
voting itself a $10 per day increase in expense allowances.   Pelham
said Sunday night there was research being done on whether the
"quickie" vote on the increase can be repealed outright or whether
notice would have to first be given that reconsideration of the action
would be sought.   While emphasizing that technical details were
not fully worked out, Pelham said his resolution would seek to set
aside the privilege resolution which the House voted through 87-31.
   A similar resolution passed in the Senate by a vote of 29-5.
As of Sunday night, there was no word of a resolution being offered
there to rescind the action.   Pelham pointed out that Georgia
voters last November rejected a constitutional amendment to allow legislators
to vote on pay raises for future Legislature sessions.
   A veteran Jackson County legislator will ask the Georgia House
Monday to back federal aid to education, something it has consistently
opposed in the past.   Rep& Mac Barber of Commerce is
asking the House in a privilege resolution to "endorse increased federal
support for public education, provided that such funds be received
and expended" as state funds.   Barber, who is in his 13th
year as a legislator, said there "are some members of our congressional
delegation in Washington who would like to see it (the resolution)
passed". But he added that none of Georgia's congressmen specifically
asked him to offer the resolution.   The resolution, which
Barber tossed into the House hopper Friday, will be formally read
Monday. It says that "in
the event Congress does provide this increase in federal funds", the
State Board of Education should be directed to "give priority"
to teacher pay raises. _COLQUITT_- After a long, hot controversy,
Miller County has a new school superintendent, elected, as a
policeman put it, in the "coolest election I ever saw in this county".
   The new school superintendent is Harry Davis, a veteran
agriculture teacher, who defeated Felix Bush, a school principal and
chairman of the Miller County Democratic Executive Committee.
   Davis received 1,119 votes in Saturday's election, and Bush
got 402. Ordinary Carey Williams, armed with a pistol, stood by at
the polls to insure order.   "This was the coolest, calmest
election I ever saw", Colquitt Policeman Tom Williams said. "Being
at the polls was just like being at church. I didn't smell
a drop of liquor, and we didn't have a bit of trouble".   The
campaign leading to the election was not so quiet, however. It was
marked by controversy, anonymous midnight phone calls and veiled threats
of violence.   The former county school superintendent, George
P& Callan, shot himself to death March 18, four days after he
resigned his post in a dispute with the county school board.   During
the election campaign, both candidates, Davis and Bush, reportedly
received anonymous telephone calls. Ordinary Williams said he,
too, was subjected to anonymous calls soon after he scheduled the election.
   Many local citizens feared that there would be irregularities
at the polls, and Williams got himself a permit to carry a gun
and promised an orderly election.   Sheriff Felix Tabb said the
ordinary apparently made good his promise.   "Everything went
real smooth", the sheriff said. "There wasn't a bit of trouble".
_AUSTIN, TEXAS_- Committee approval of Gov& Price Daniel's
"abandoned property" act seemed certain Thursday despite the adamant
protests of Texas bankers.   Daniel personally led the fight
for the measure, which he had watered down considerably since its
rejection by two previous Legislatures, in a public hearing before
the House Committee on Revenue and Taxation.   Under committee
rules, it went automatically to a subcommittee for one week. But
questions with which committee members taunted bankers appearing as witnesses
left little doubt that they will recommend passage of it.
   Daniel termed "extremely conservative" his estimate that it would
produce 17 million dollars to help erase an anticipated deficit of
63 million dollars at the end of the current fiscal year next Aug&
31.   He told the committee the measure would merely provide means
of enforcing the escheat law which has been on the books "since
Texas was a republic". It permits the state to take over bank accounts,
stocks and other personal property of persons missing for seven
years or more.   The bill, which Daniel said he drafted personally,
would force banks, insurance firms, pipeline companies and other
corporations to report such property to the state treasurer. The escheat
law cannot be enforced now because it is almost impossible to locate
such property, Daniel declared.   Dewey Lawrence, a Tyler
lawyer representing the Texas Bankers Association, sounded the opposition
keynote when he said it would force banks to violate their contractual
obligations with depositors and undermine the confidence of bank
customers.   "If you destroy confidence in banks, you do something
to the economy", he said. "You take out of circulation many
millions of dollars".   Rep& Charles E& Hughes of Sherman,
sponsor of the bill, said a failure to enact it would amount "to
making a gift out of the taxpayers' pockets to banks, insurance
and pipeline companies".   His contention was denied by several
bankers, including Scott Hudson of Sherman, Gaynor B& Jones
of Houston, J& B& Brady of Harlingen and Howard Cox of Austin.
   Cox argued that the bill is "probably unconstitutional"
since, he said, it would impair contracts.   He also complained
that not enough notice was given on the hearing, since the bill was
introduced only last Monday.
_AUSTIN, TEXAS_- Senators unanimously approved Thursday the bill
of Sen& George Parkhouse of Dallas authorizing establishment
of day schools for the deaf in Dallas and the four other largest counties.
   The bill is designed to provide special schooling for more
deaf students in the scholastic age at a reduced cost to the state.
   There was no debate as the Senate passed the bill on to the
House.   It would authorize the Texas Education Agency to establish
county-wide day schools for the deaf in counties of 300,000 or
more population, require deaf children between 6 and 13 years of age
to attend the day schools, permitting older ones to attend the residential
Texas School for the Deaf here.   Operating budget for the
day schools in the five counties of Dallas, Harris, Bexar, Tarrant
and El Paso would be $451,500, which would be a savings of $157,460
yearly after the first year's capital outlay of $88,000 was absorbed,
Parkhouse told the Senate.   The ~TEA estimated there
would be 182 scholastics to attend the day school in Dallas County,
saving them from coming to Austin to live in the state deaf school.
#@# {DALLAS MAY GET} to hear a debate on horse race
parimutuels
soon between Reps& V& E& (Red) Berry and Joe Ratcliff.
   While details are still be to worked out, Ratcliff said
he expects to tell home folks in Dallas why he thinks Berry's proposed
constitutional amendment should be rejected.   "We're
getting more 'pro' letters than 'con' on horse race betting",
said Ratcliff. "But I believe if people were better informed on
this question, most of them would oppose it also. I'm willing to stake
my political career on it".   Rep& Berry, an ex-gambler
from San Antonio, got elected on his advocacy of betting on the ponies.
A House committee which heard his local option proposal is expected
to give it a favorable report, although the resolution faces hard
sledding later. #@# {THE HOUSE} passed finally, and
sent
to the Senate, a bill extending the State Health Department's
authority to give planning assistance to cities. #@# {THE
SENATE}
quickly whipped through its meager fare of House bills approved
by committees, passing the three on the calendar. One validated acts
of school districts. Another enlarged authority of the Beaumont
Navigation District.   The third amended the enabling act for
creation of the Lamar county Hospital District, for which a special
constitutional amendment previously was adopted. #@# {WITHOUT
DISSENT},
senators passed a bill by Sen& A& R& Schwartz
of Galveston authorizing establishment in the future of a school for
the mentally retarded in the Gulf Coast district. Money for its construction
will be sought later on but in the meantime the State Hospital
board can accept gifts and donations of a site. #@# {TWO
TAX REVISION}
bills were passed. One, by Sen& Louis Crump of
San Saba, would aid more than 17,000 retailers who pay a group of
miscellaneous excise taxes by eliminating the requirement that each return
be notarized. Instead, retailers would sign a certificate of correctness,
violation of which would carry a penalty of one to five years
in prison, plus a $1,000 fine. It was one of a series of recommendations
by the Texas Research League. #@# {THE OTHER BILL},
by Sen& A& M& Aikin Jr& of Paris, would relieve real
estate brokers, who pay their own annual licensing fee, from the $12 annual
occupation license on brokers in such as stocks and bonds. #@#
{NATURAL GAS}
public utility companies would be given the right
of eminent domain, under a bill by Sen& Frank Owen /3, of
El Paso, to acquire sites for underground storage reservoirs for gas.
#@# {MARSHALL FORMBY} of Plainview, former chairman
of
the Texas Highway Commission, suggested a plan to fill by appointment
future vacancies in the Legislature and Congress, eliminating the
need for costly special elections.   Under Formby's plan, an
appointee would be selected by a board composed of the governor, lieutenant
governor, speaker of the House, attorney general and chief justice
of the Texas Supreme Court.
_AUSTIN, TEXAS_- State representatives decided Thursday against
taking a poll on what kind of taxes Texans would prefer to pay.
   An adverse vote of 81 to 65 kept in the State Affairs Committee
a bill which would order the referendum on the April 4 ballot, when
Texas votes on a U&S& senator.   Rep& Wesley Roberts
of Seminole, sponsor of the poll idea, said that further delay in the
committee can kill the bill.   The West Texan reported that
he had finally gotten Chairman Bill Hollowell of the committee to set
it for public hearing on Feb& 22. The proposal would have to receive
final legislative approval, by two-thirds majorities, before March
1 to be printed on the April 4 ballot, Roberts said.   Opponents
generally argued that the ballot couldn't give enough information
about tax proposals for the voters to make an intelligent choice.
   All Dallas members voted with Roberts, except Rep& Bill
Jones, who was absent.
_AUSTIN, TEXAS_- Paradise lost to the alleged water needs of Texas'
big cities Thursday.   Rep& James Cotten of Weatherford
insisted that a water development bill passed by the Texas House
of Representatives was an effort by big cities like Dallas and Fort
Worth to cover up places like Paradise, a Wise County hamlet
of 250 people.   When the shouting ended, the bill passed, 114
to 4, sending it to the Senate, where a similar proposal is being sponsored
by Sen& George Parkhouse of Dallas.   Most of the fire
was directed by Cotten against Dallas and Sen& Parkhouse. The
bill would increase from $5,000,000 to $15,000,000 the maximum loan
the state could make to a local water project.   Cotten construed
this as a veiled effort by Parkhouse to help Dallas and other large
cities get money which Cotten felt could better be spent providing
water for rural Texas.   Statements by other legislators that
Dallas is paying for all its water program by local bonds, and that less
populous places would benefit most by the pending bill, did not sway
Cotten's attack.   The bill's defenders were mostly small-town
legislators like J& W& Buchanan of Dumas, Eligio (Kika)
de la Garza of Mission, Sam F& Collins of Newton and Joe Chapman
of Sulphur Springs.   "This is a poor boy's bill",
said Chapman. "Dallas and Fort Worth can vote bonds. This would
help the little peanut districts".
_AUSTIN, TEXAS_- A Houston teacher, now serving in the Legislature,
proposed Thursday a law reducing the time spent learning "educational
methods".   Rep& Henry C& Grover, who teaches
history in the Houston public schools, would reduce from 24 to 12 semester
hours the so-called "teaching methods" courses required to
obtain a junior or senior high school teaching certificate. A normal
year's work in college is 30 semester hours.   Grover also would
require junior-senior high teachers to have at least 24 semester hours
credit in the subject they are teaching. The remainder of the 4-year
college requirement would be in general subjects.   "A person
with a master's degree in physics, chemistry, math or English,
yet who has not taken Education courses, is not permitted to teach in
the public schools", said Grover.   College teachers in Texas
are not required to have the Education courses.   Fifty-three
of the 150 representatives immediately joined Grover as co-signers
of the proposal.
_PARIS, TEXAS (SP&)_- The board of regents of Paris Junior
College has named Dr& Clarence Charles Clark of Hays, Kan&
as the school's new president.   Dr& Clark will succeed Dr&
J& R& McLemore, who will retire at the close of the present
school term.   Dr& Clark holds an earned Doctor of Education
degree from the University of Oklahoma. He also received a Master
of Science degree from Texas ~A+~I College and a Bachelor
of Science degree from Southwestern State College, Weatherford,
Okla&.   In addition, Dr& Clark has studied at Rhode Island
State College and Massachusetts Institute of Technology.
   During his college career, Dr& Clark was captain of his basketball
team and was a football letterman.   Dr& Clark has served
as teacher and principal in Oklahoma high schools, as teacher and
athletic director at Raymondville, Texas, High School, as an instructor
at the University of Oklahoma, and as an associate professor
of education at Fort Hays, Kan&, State College. He has served
as a border patrolman and was in the Signal Corps of the U&S&
Army.
_DENTON, TEXAS (SP&)_- Principals of the 13 schools in the Denton
Independent School District have been re-elected for the 1961-62
session upon the recommendation of Supt& Chester O& Strickland.
   State and federal legislation against racial discrimination in
employment was called for yesterday in a report of a "blue ribbon"
citizens committee on the aid to dependent children program.
The report, culminating a year long study of the ~ADC program in
Cook county by a New York City welfare consulting firm, listed 10
long range recommendations designed to reduce the soaring ~ADC
case load. The report called racial discrimination in employment "one
of the most serious causes of family breakdown, desertion, and ~ADC
dependency". #"MUST SOLVE PROBLEM"# The monthly cost
of ~ADC to more than 100,000 recipients in the county is 4.4 million
dollars, said C& Virgil Martin, president of Carson Pirie
Scott + Co&, committee chairman.   "We must solve the problems
which have forced these people to depend upon ~ADC for subsistence",
Martin said.   The volume of ~ADC cases will decrease,
Martin reported, when the community is able to deal effectively
with two problems: Relatively limited skills and discrimination
in employment because of color. These, he said, are "two of the principal
underlying causes for family breakups leading to ~ADC".
#CALLS FOR EXTENSION# Other recommendations made by the committee
are:   Extension of the ~ADC program to all children in
need living with any relatives, including both parents, as a means of
preserving family unity.   Research projects as soon as possible
on the causes and prevention of dependency and illegitimacy.
   Several defendants in the Summerdale police burglary trial made
statements indicating their guilt at the time of their arrest, Judge
James B& Parsons was told in Criminal court yesterday.
The disclosure by Charles Bellows, chief defense counsel, startled
observers and was viewed as the prelude to a quarrel between the six
attorneys representing the eight former policemen now on trial.
   Bellows made the disclosure when he asked Judge Parsons to grant
his client, Alan Clements, 30, a separate trial. Bellows made the request
while the all-woman jury was out of the courtroom. #FEARS PREJUDICIAL
ASPECTS# "The statements may be highly prejudicial to my
client", Bellows told the court. "Some of the defendants strongly
indicated they knew they were receiving stolen property. It is impossible
to get a fair trial when some of the defendants made statements
involving themselves and others".   Judge Parsons leaned over
the bench and inquired, "You mean some of the defendants made statements
admitting this"?   "Yes, your honor", replied
Bellows. "What this amounts to, if true, is that there will be a free-for-all
fight in this case. There is a conflict among the defendants".
_WASHINGTON, JULY 24_- President Kennedy today pushed aside other
White House business to devote all his time and attention to working
on the Berlin crisis address he will deliver tomorrow night to the
American people over nationwide television and radio.   The
President spent much of the week-end at his summer home on Cape Cod
writing the first drafts of portions of the address with the help of
White House aids in Washington with whom he talked by telephone.
   Shortly after the Chief Executive returned to Washington in midmorning
from Hyannis Port, Mass&, a White House spokesman said
the address text still had "quite a way to go" toward completion.
#DECISIONS ARE MADE# Asked to elaborate, Pierre Salinger, White
House press secretary, replied, "I would say it's got to go
thru several more drafts".   Salinger said the work President
Kennedy, advisers, and members of his staff were doing on the address
involved composition and wording, rather than last minute decisions
on administration plans to meet the latest Berlin crisis precipitated
by Russia's demands and proposals for the city.
   The last 10 cases in the investigation of the Nov& 8 election
were dismissed yesterday by Acting Judge John M& Karns, who
charged that the prosecution obtained evidence "by unfair and fundamentally
illegal means".   Karns said that the cases involved a
matter "of even greater significance than the guilt or innocence"
of the 50 persons. He said evidence was obtained "in violation of
the legal rights of citizens".   Karns' ruling pertained to
eight of the 10 cases. In the two other cases he ruled that the state
had been "unable to make a case". Contempt proceedings originally
had been brought against 677 persons in 133 precincts by Morris J&
Wexler, special prosecutor. #ISSUE JURY SUBPENAS# Wexler
admitted in earlier court hearings that he issued grand jury subpenas
to about 200 persons involved in the election investigation, questioned
the individuals in the Criminal courts building, but did not take them
before the grand jury.   Mayer Goldberg, attorney for election
judges in the 58th precinct of the 23d ward, argued this procedure
constituted intimidation. Wexler has denied repeatedly that coercion
was used in questioning.   Karns said it was a "wrongful act"
for Wexler to take statements "privately and outside of the grand
jury room". He said this constituted a "very serious misuse"
of the Criminal court processes.   "Actually, the abuse of the
process may have constituted a contempt of the Criminal court of Cook
county, altho vindication of the authority of that court is not the
function of this court", said Karns, who is a City judge in East
St& Louis sitting in Cook County court. #FACED SEVEN CASES#
Karns had been scheduled this week to hear seven cases involving 35
persons. Wexler had charged the precinct judges in these cases with
"complementary" miscount of the vote, in which votes would be taken
from one candidate and given to another.   The cases involved
judges in the 33d, 24th, and 42d precincts of the 31st ward, the 21st
and 28th precincts of the 29th ward, the 18th precinct of the 4th ward,
and the 9th precinct of the 23d ward.   The case of the judges
in the 58th precinct of the 23d ward had been heard previously and taken
under advisement by Karns. Two other cases also were under advisement.
#CLAIMS PRECEDENT LACKING# After reading his statement discharging
the 23d ward case, Karns told Wexler that if the seven cases
scheduled for trial also involved persons who had been subpenaed, he
would dismiss them.
_WASHINGTON, FEB& 9_- President Kennedy today proposed a mammoth
new medical care program whereby social security taxes on 70 million
American workers would be raised to pay the hospital and some other
medical bills of 14.2 million Americans over 65 who are covered by
social security or railroad retirement programs.   The President,
in a special message to Congress, tied in with his aged care plan
requests for large federal grants to finance medical and dental scholarships,
build 20 new medical and 20 new dental schools, and expand child
health care and general medical research.   The aged care plan,
similar to one the President sponsored last year as a senator, a
fight on Capitol hill. It was defeated in Congress last year. #COST
UP TO $37 A YEAR# It would be financed by boosting the social security
payroll tax by as much as $37 a year for each of the workers now
paying such taxes.   The social security payroll tax is now 6
per cent- 3 per cent on each worker and employer- on the first $4,800
of pay per year. The Kennedy plan alone would boost the base to
$5,000 a year and the payroll tax to 6.5 per cent- 3.25 per cent each.
Similar payroll tax boosts would be imposed on those under the railroad
retirement system.   The payroll tax would actually rise
to 7.5 per cent starting Jan& 1, 1963, if the plan is approved, because
the levy is already scheduled to go up by 1 per cent on that date
to pay for other social security costs. #OUTLAYS WOULD INCREASE#
Officials estimated the annual tax boost for the medical plan would
amount to 1.5 billion dollars and that medical benefits paid out would
run 1 billion or more in the first year, 1963. Both figures would go
higher in later years.   Other parts of the Kennedy health plan
would entail federal grants of 750 million to 1 billion dollars over
the next 10 years. These would be paid for out of general, not payroll,
taxes. #NURSING HOME CARE# The aged care plan carries these
benefits for persons over 65 who are under the social security and railroad
retirement systems: _1._ Full payment of hospital bills for
stays up to 90 days for each illness, except that the patient would
pay $10 a day of the cost for the first nine days. _2._ Full payment
of nursing home bills for up to 180 days following discharge from
a hospital. A patient could receive up to 300 days paid-for nursing
home care under a "unit formula" allowing more of such care for those
who use none or only part of the hospital-care credit. _3._ Hospital
outpatient clinic diagnostic service for all costs in excess
of $20 a patient. _4._ Community visiting nurse services at home
for up to 240 days an illness.   The President noted that Congress
last year passed a law providing grants to states to help pay medical
bills of the needy aged. #CALLS PROPOSAL MODEST# He said his
plan is designed to "meet the needs of those millions who have no wish
to receive care at the taxpayers' expense, but who are nevertheless
staggered by the drain on their savings- or those of their children-
caused by an extended hospital stay".   "This is a very
modest proposal cut to meet absolutely essential needs", he said,
"and with sufficient 'deductible' requirements to discourage any
malingering or unnecessary overcrowding of our hospitals.   "This
is not a program of socialized medicine. It is a program of prepayment
of health costs with absolute freedom of choice guaranteed. Every
person will choose his own doctor and hospital". #WOULDN'T
PAY DOCTORS# The plan does not cover doctor bills. They would still
be paid by the patient.   Apart from the aged care plan the President's
most ambitious and costly proposals were for federal scholarships,
and grants to build or enlarge medical and dental schools.
   The President said the nation's 92 medical and 47 dental schools
cannot now handle the student load needed to meet the rising need
for health care. Moreover, he said, many qualified young people are
not going into medicine and dentistry because they can't afford the
schooling costs. #CONTRIBUTIONS TO SCHOOLS# The scholarship plan
would
provide federal contributions to each medical and dental school equal
to $1,500 a year for one-fourth of the first year students. The
schools could use the money to pay 4-year scholarships, based on need,
of up to $2,000 a year per student.   In addition, the government
would pay a $1,000 "cost of education" grant to the schools for
each $1,500 in scholarship grants. Officials estimated the combined
programs would cost
5.1 million dollars the first year and would go up to 21
millions by 1966.   The President recommended federal "matching
grants" totaling 700 million dollars in 10 years for constructing
new medical and dental schools or enlarging the capacity of existing
ones. #MORE FOR NURSING HOMES# In the area of "community health
services", the President called for doubling the present 10 million
dollar a year federal grants for nursing home construction. He asked
for another 10 million dollar "initial" appropriation for "stimulatory
grants" to states to improve nursing homes.   He further
proposed grants of an unspecified sum for experimental hospitals.
   In the child health field, the President said he will recommend
later an increase in funds for programs under the children's bureau.
He also asked Congress to approve establishment of a national
child health institute. #ASKS RESEARCH FUNDS# The President said
he will ask Congress to increase grants to states for vocational rehabilitation.
He did not say by how much.   For medical research
he asked a 20 million dollar a year increase, from 30 to 50 millions,
in matching grants for building research facilities. The President
said he will also propose increasing, by an unspecified amount, the 540
million dollars in the 1961-62 budget for direct government research
in medicine.   The President said his proposals combine the "indispensable
elements in a sound health program- people, knowledge,
services, facilities, and the means to pay for them". #REACTION
AS EXPECTED# Congressional reaction to the message was along expected
lines. Legislators who last year opposed placing aged-care under
the social security system criticized the President's plan. Those
who backed a similar plan last year hailed the message.   Senate
Republican Leader Dirksen [Ill&] and House Republican Leader
Charles Halleck [Ind&] said the message did not persuade them
to change their opposition to compulsory medical insurance. Halleck
said the voluntary care plan enacted last year should be given a fair
trial first.   House Speaker Sam Rayburn [D&, Tex&]
called the Kennedy program "a mighty fine thing", but made no prediction
on its fate in the House.
_WASHINGTON, FEB& 9_- Acting hastily under White House pressure,
the Senate tonight confirmed Robert C& Weaver as the nation's
federal housing chief.   Only 11 senators were on the floor
and there was no record vote. A number of scattered "ayes" and
"noes" was heard.   Customary Senate rules were ignored in
order to speed approval of the Negro leader as administrator of the housing
and home finance agency.   In the last eight years, all
Presidential appointments, including those of cabinet rank, have been
denied immediate action because of a Senate rule requiring at least
a 24 hour delay after they are reported to the floor. #ENFORCE BY DEMAND#
The rule was enforced by demand of Sen& Wayne Morse [D&,
Ore&] in connection with President Eisenhower's cabinet
selections in 1953 and President Kennedy's in 1961.
_OSLO_ The most positive element to emerge from the Oslo meeting
of North Atlantic Treaty Organization Foreign Ministers has been
the freer, franker, and wider discussions, animated by much better mutual
understanding than in past meetings.   This has been a working
session of an organization that, by its very nature, can only proceed
along its route step by step and without dramatic changes. In Oslo,
the ministers have met in a climate of candor, and made a genuine
attempt to get information and understanding one another's problems.
   This atmosphere of understanding has been particularly noticeable
where relations are concerned between the "colonialist" powers
and those who have never, or not for a long time, had such problems.
The nightmare of a clash between those in trouble in Africa, exacerbated
by the difficulties, changes, and tragedies facing them, and other
allies who intellectually and emotionally disapprove of the circumstances
that have brought these troubles about, has been conspicious by
its absence. #EXPLOSION AVOIDED# In the case of Portugal, which
a few weeks ago was rumored ready to walk out of the ~NATO Council
should critics of its Angola policy prove harsh, there has been
a noticeable relaxation of tension. The general, remarkably courteous,
explanation has left basic positions unchanged, but there has been
no explosion in the council. There should even be no more bitter surprises
in the ~UN General Assembly as to ~NATO members' votes,
since a new ad hoc ~NATO committee has been set up so that
in the future such topics as Angola will be discussed in advance.
   Canada alone has been somewhat out of step with the Oslo attempt
to get all the allied cars back on the track behind the ~NATO
locomotive. Even Norway, despite daily but limited manifestations against
atomic arms in the heart of this northernmost capital of the alliance,
is today closer to the ~NATO line.   On the negative
side of the balance sheet must be set some disappointment that the
United States leadership has not been as much in evidence as hoped for.
One diplomat described the tenor of Secretary of State Dean Rusk's
speeches as "inconclusive". But he hastened to add that,
if United States policies were not always clear, despite Mr& Rusk's
analysis of the various global danger points and setbacks for the
West, this may merely mean the new administration has not yet firmly
fixed its policy. #EXPLORATORY MOOD# A certain vagueness may also
be caused by tactical appreciation of the fact that the present council
meeting is a semipublic affair, with no fewer than six Soviet correspondents
accredited.   The impression has nevertheless been
given during these three days, despite Mr& Rusk's personal popularity,
that the United States delegation came to Oslo in a somewhat
tentative and exploratory frame of mind, more ready to listen and learn
than to enunciate firm policy on a global scale with detailed application
to individual danger spots.   The Secretary of State
himself, in his first speech, gave some idea of the tremendous march of
events inside and outside the United States that has preoccupied the
new administration in the past four months.   But where the core
of ~NATO is concerned, the Secretary of State has not only
reiterated the United States' profound attachment to the alliance,
"cornerstone" of its foreign policy, but has announced that five
nuclear submarines will eventually be at ~NATO's disposal in
European waters.   The Secretary of State has also solemnly repeated
a warning to the Soviet Union that the United States will
not stand for another setback in Berlin, an affirmation once again taken
up by the council as a whole. #CONFLICT SURVEYED# The secretary's
greatest achievement is perhaps the rekindling of ~NATO realization
that East-West friction, wherever it take place around the
globe, is in essence the general conflict between two entirely different
societies, and must be treated as such without regard to geographical
distance or lack of apparent connection.   The annual spring
meeting has given an impetus in three main directions: more, deeper,
and more timely political consultation within the alliance, the use
of the Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development (when
ratified) as a method of coordinating aid to the underdeveloped countries,
and the need for strengthening conventional forces as well as the
maintenance of the nuclear deterrent.   This increase in the
"threshold", as the conventional forces strengthening is called, will
prove one of the alliance's most difficult problems in the months
to come. Each ally will have to carry out obligations long since laid
down, but never completely fulfilled.
_WASHINGTON_ The Kennedy administration moves haltingly toward a
Geneva conference on Laos just as serious debate over its foreign policy
erupts for the first time.   There is little optimism here
that the Communists will be any more docile at the conference table
than they were in military actions on the ground in Laos.   The
United States, State Department officials explain, now is mainly
interested in setting up an international inspection system which will
prevent Laos from being used as a base for Communist attacks on neighboring
Thailand and South Viet Nam.   They count on the aid
of the neutral countries attending the Geneva conference to achieve
this.   The United States hopes that any future Lao Cabinet
would not become Communist dominated. But it is apparent that no acceptable
formula has been found to prevent such a possibility. #POLICIES
MODIFIED# The inclination here is to accept a de facto cease-fire
in Laos, rather than continue to insist on a verification of the
cease-fire by the international control commission before participating
in the Geneva conference.   This is another of the modifications
of policy on Laos that the Kennedy administration has felt compelled
to make. It excuses these actions as being the chain reaction to
basic errors made in the previous administration.   Its spokesmen
insist that there has not been time enough to institute reforms in
military and economic aid policies in the critical areas.   But
with the months moving on- and the immediate confrontations with the
Communists showing no gain for the free world- the question arises:
   How effective have Kennedy administration first foreign policy
decisions been in dealing with Communist aggression?   Former
Vice-President Richard M& Nixon in Detroit called for a
firmer and tougher policy toward the Soviet Union. He was critical
of what he feels is President Kennedy's tendency to be too conciliatory.
#~GOP RESTRAINED# It does not take a Gallup poll to
find out that most Republicans in Congress feel this understates the
situation as Republicans see it. They can hardly restrain themselves
from raising the question of whether Republicans, if they had been
in power, would have made "amateurish and monumental blunders" in
Cuba.   One Republican senator told this correspondent that he
was constantly being asked why he didn't attack the Kennedy administration
on this score. His reply, he said, was that he agreed to the
need for unity in the country now. But he further said that it was
better politics to let others question the wisdom of administration policies
first.   The Republicans some weeks ago served notice through
Senator Thruston B& Morton (~R) of Kentucky, chairman
of the Republican National Committee, that the Kennedy administration
would be held responsible if the outcome in Laos was a coalition
government susceptible of Communist domination.   Kennedy administration
policies also have been assailed now from another direction
by 70 Harvard, Boston University, Brandeis, and Massachusetts Institute
of Technology educators. #DETENTE URGED# This group pleads
with the administration to "give no further support for the invasion
of Cuba by exile groups". It recommends that the United States
"seek instead to detach the Castro regime from the Communist bloc
by working for a diplomatic detente and a resumption of trade relations;
and concentrate its constructive efforts on eliminating in other
parts of Latin America the social conditions on which totalitarian
nationalism feeds".   Mr& Nixon, for his part, would oppose
intervention in Cuba without specific provocation. But he did recommend
that President Kennedy state clearly that if Communist countries
shipped any further arms to Cuba that it would not be tolerated.
   Until the Cuban fiasco and the Communist military victories
in Laos,
almost any observer would have said that President Kennedy had blended
a program that respected, generally, the opinions voiced both by
Mr& Nixon and the professors. #AID PLANS REVAMPED# Very early
in his administration he informed the Kremlin through diplomatic channels,
a high official source disclosed, that the new administration
would react even tougher than the Eisenhower administration would during
the formative period of the administration.   Strenuous efforts
were made to remove pin pricking from administration statements. Policies
on nuclear test ban negotiations were reviewed and changed. But
thus far there has been no response in kind.   Foreign aid programs
were revamped to give greater emphasis to economic aid and to
encourage political reform in recipient nations.   In Laos, the
administration looked at the Eisenhower administration efforts to show
determination by sailing a naval fleet into Southeast Asian waters
as a useless gesture.   Again and again it asked the Communists
to "freeze" the military situation in Laos. But the Communists
aided the Pathet Lao at an even faster rate.   And after several
correspondents went into Pathet Lao territory and exposed the
huge build-up,
administration spokesmen acclaimed them for performing a
"great service" and laid the matter before the Southeast Asia Treaty
Organization.   ~SEATO was steamed up and prepared
contingency plans for coping with the military losses in Laos. But
the Communists never gave sufficient provocation at any one time for
the United States to want to risk a limited or an all-out war over Laos.
(Some ~SEATO nations disagreed, however.)   There
was the further complication that the administration had very early concluded
that Laos was ill suited to be an ally, unlike its more determined
neighbors, Thailand and South Viet Nam.   The administration
declared itself in favor of a neutralized Laos. The pro-Western
government, which the United States had helped in a revolt against
the Souvanna Phouma "neutralist" government, never did appear
to spark much fighting spirit in the Royal Lao Army.   There
certainly was not any more energy displayed after it was clear the United
States would not back the pro-Western government to the hilt.
   If the administration ever had any ideas that it could find an
acceptable alternative to Prince Souvanna Phouma, whom it felt was
too trusting of Communists, it gradually had to relinquish them.
   One factor was the statement of Senator J& W& Fulbright (~D)
of Arkansas, chairman of the Senate Foreign Relations Committee.
He declared on March 25 that the United States had erred a
year and a half ago by "encouraging the removal" of Prince Souvanna.
_WASHINGTON_ The White House is taking extraordinary steps to check
the rapid growth of juvenile delinquency in the United States.
   The President is deeply concerned over this problem and its effect
upon the "vitality of the nation".   In an important assertion
of national leadership in this field, he has issued an executive
order establishing the President's committee on Juvenile Delinquency
and Crime, to be supported and assisted by a Citizens Advisory
Council of recognized authorities on juvenile problems.   The
President asks the support and cooperation of Congress in his efforts
through the enactment of legislation to provide federal grants to
states for specified efforts in combating this disturbing crime trend.
#OFFENSES MULTIPLY# The President has also called upon the Attorney
General, the Secretary of Health, Education and Welfare, and
the Secretary of Labor to coordinate their efforts "in the development
of a program of federal leadership to assist states and local
communities in their efforts to cope with the problem.   Simultaneously
the President announced Thursday the appointment of David L&
Hackett, a special assistant ot the Attorney General, as executive
director of the new Committee on Juvenile Delinquency and Youth
Crime.   His sense of urgency in this matter stems from the
fact that court cases ond juvenile arrests have more than doubled since
1948, each year showing an increase in offenders.   Among arrests
reported by the Federal Bureau of Investigation in 1959, about
half for burglary and larceny involved persons under 18 years of age.
   East Providence should organize its civil defense setup and begin
by appointing a full-time director, Raymond H& Hawksley, the
present city ~CD head, believes.   Mr& Hawksley said yesterday
he would be willing to go before the city council "or anyone
else locally" to outline his proposal at the earliest possible time.
   East Providence now has no civil defense program. Mr& Hawksley,
the state's general treasurer, has been a part-time ~CD
director in the city for the last nine years. He is not interested in
being named a full-time director.   Noting that President Kennedy
has handed the Defense Department the major responsibility for
the nation's civil defense program, Mr& Hawksley said the federal
government would pay half the salary of a full-time local director.
   He expressed the opinion the city could hire a ~CD director
for about $3,500 a year and would only have to put up half that amount
on
a matching fund basis to defray the salary costs.   Mr& Hawksley
said he believed there are a number of qualified city residents
who would be willing to take the full-time ~CD job. One of these
men is former Fire Chief John A& Laughlin, he said.   Along
with a director, the city should provide a ~CD headquarters so
that pertinent information about the local organization would be centralized.
Mr& Hawksley said.   One advantage that would come to
the city in having a full-time director, he said, is that East Providence
would become eligible to apply to the federal government for financial
aid in purchasing equipment needed for a sound civil defense
program.   Matching funds also can be obtained for procurement of
such items as radios, sirens and rescue trucks, he said.   Mr&
Hawksley believes that East Providence could use two more rescue
trucks, similar to the ~CD vehicle obtained several years ago and
now detailed to the Central Fire Station.   He would assign
one of the rescue trucks to the Riverside section of the city and the
other to the Rumford area.   Speaking of the present status of
civil defense in the city, Mr& Hawksley said he would be willing
to bet that not more than one person in a hundred would know what to
do or where to go in the event of an enemy attack.   The Narragansett
Race Track grounds is one assembly point, he said, and a drive-in
theater in Seekonk would be another. Riverside residents would
go to the Seekonk assembly point.   Mr& Hawksley said he was
not critical of city residents for not knowing what to do or where to
assemble in case of an air attack.   Such vital information, he
said, has to be made available to the public frequently and at regular
intervals for residents to know.   If the city council fails to
consider appointment of a full-time ~CD director, Mr& Hawksley
said, then he plans to call a meeting early in September so that a
civil defense organization will be developed locally.   One of
the first things he would do, he said, would be to organize classes in
first aid. Other steps would be developed after information drifts down
to the local level from the federal government.
   Rhode Island is going to examine its Sunday sales law with possible
revisions in mind.   Governor Notte said last night he
plans to name a committee to make the study and come up with recommendations
for possible changes in time for the next session of the General
Assembly.   The governor's move into the so-called "blue
law" controversy came in the form of a letter to Miss Mary R&
Grant, deputy city clerk of Central Falls. A copy was released to
the press.   Mr& Notte was responding to a resolution adopted
by the Central Falls City Council on July 10 and sent to the state
house by Miss Grant. The resolution urges the governor to have a
complete study of the Sunday sales laws made with an eye to their revision
at the next session of the legislature.   While the city
council suggested that the Legislative Council might perform the review,
Mr& Notte said that instead he will take up the matter with Atty&
Gen& J& Joseph Nugent to get "the benefit of his views".
He will then appoint the study committee with Mr& Nugent's
cooperation, the governor said.   "I would expect the proposed
committee to hold public hearings", Mr& Notte said, "to obtain
the views of the general public and religious, labor and special-interest
groups affected by these laws".   The governor wrote
Miss Grant that he has been concerned for some time "with the continuous
problem which confronts our local and state law enforcement officers
as a result of the laws regulating Sunday sales".   The
attorney general has advised local police that it is their duty to enforce
the blue laws. Should there be evidence they are shirking, he has
said, the state police will step into the situation.   There
has been more activity across the state line in Massachusetts than in
Rhode Island in recent weeks toward enforcement of the Sunday sales
laws. The statutes, similar in both the Bay State and Rhode Island
and dating back in some instances to colonial times, severely limit
the types of merchandise that may be sold on the Sabbath.   The
Central Falls City Council expressed concern especially that more
foods be placed on the eligible list and that neighborhood grocery
and variety stores be allowed to do business on Sunday.   The only
day they "have a chance to compete with large supermarkets is on
Sunday", the council's resolution said. The small shops "must
be retained, for they provide essential service to the community",
according to the resolution, which added that they "also are the source
of livelihood for thousands of our neighbors". It declares that
Sunday sales licenses provide "great revenue" to the local government.
   The council advised the governor that "large supermarkets,
factory outlets and department stores not be allowed to do business"
on Sunday. They "operate on a volume basis", it was contended,
"and are not essential to provide the more limited but vital
shopping needs of the community".
   Liberals and conservatives in both parties- Democratic and
Republican- should divorce themselves and form two independent parties,
George H& Reama, nationally known labor-management expert, said
here yesterday.   Mr& Reama told the Rotary Club of Providence
at its luncheon at the Sheraton-Biltmore Hotel that about
half of the people in the country want the "welfare" type of government
and the other half want a free enterprise system. He suggested
that a regrouping of forces might allow the average voter a better pull
at the right lever for him on election day.   He said he was "confessing
that I was a member of the Socialist Party in 1910".
That, he added, was when he was "a very young man, a machinist and
toolmaker by trade.   "That was before I studied law. Some
of my fellow workers were grooming me for an office in the Socialist
Party. The lawyer with whom I studied law steered me off the Socialist
track. He steered me to the right track- the free enterprise track".
   He said that when he was a Socialist in 1910, the party
called for government operation of all utilities and the pooling of
all resources. He suggested that without the Socialist Party ever
gaining a national victory, most of its original program has come to
pass under both major parties.   Mr& Reama, who retired as vice
president of the American Screw Co& in 1955 said, "Both parties
in the last election told us that we need a five per cent growth
in the gross national product- but neither told us how to achieve it".
   He said he favors wage increases for workers- "but manufacturers
are caught in a profit squeeze"- and raises should only
come when the public is conditioned to higher prices, he added.
   Indicating the way in which he has turned his back on his 1910 philosophy,
Mr& Reama said: "A Socialist is a person who believes
in dividing everything he does not own". Mr& Reama, far from
really being retired, is engaged in industrial relations counseling.
   A petition bearing the signatures of more than 1,700 Johnston
taxpayers was presented to the town council last night as what is hoped
will be the first step in obtaining a home rule charter for the town.
   William A& Martinelli, chairman of the Citizens Group
of Johnston, transferred the petitions from his left hand to his right
hand after the council voted to accept them at the suggestion of Council
President Raymond Fortin Sr&.   The law which governs
home rule charter petitions states that they must be referred to the
chairman of the board of canvassers for verification of the signatures
within 10 days and Mr& Martinelli happens to hold that post.
   Mr& Martinelli explained that there should be more than enough
signatures to assure the scheduling of a vote on the home rule charter
and possible election of a nine member charter commission within 70
days. He explained that by law the council must establish procedures
for a vote on the issue within 60 days after the board of canvassers
completes its work.   A difference of opinion arose between Mr&
Martinelli and John P& Bourcier, town solicitor, over the exact
manner in which the vote is handled. Mr& Martinelli has, in recent
weeks, been of the opinion that a special town meeting would be called
for the vote, while Mr& Bourcier said that a special election
might be called instead.   Mr& Bourcier said that he had consulted
several Superior Court justices in the last week and received
opinions favoring both procedures. He assured Mr& Martinelli and
the council that he would study the correct method and report back to
the council as soon as possible.   Mr& Martinelli said yesterday
that the Citizens Group of Johnston will meet again July 24 to
plan further strategy in the charter movement. He said that the group
has no candidates for the charter commission in mind at present, but
that it will undoubtedly endorse candidates when the time comes.
   "After inspiring this, I think we should certainly follow through
on it", he declared. "It has become our responsibility and I
hope that the Citizens Group will spearhead the movement".
He said he would not be surprised if some of the more than 30 members
of the group are interested in running on the required non-partisan
ballot for posts on the charter commission.   "Our most immediate
goal is to increase public awareness of the movement", he indicated,
"and to tell them what this will mean for the town". He expects
that if the present timetable is followed a vote will be scheduled
during the last week in September.   Some opposition to the home
rule movement started to be heard yesterday, with spokesmen for the
town's insurgent Democratic leadership speaking out against the home
rule charter in favor of the model municipal league charter.
Increasing opposition can be expected in coming weeks, it was indicated.
   Misunderstanding of the real meaning of a home rule charter
was cited as a factor which has caused the Citizens Group to obtain
signatures under what were termed "false pretenses". Several signers
affixed their names, it was learned, after being told that no tax
increase would be possible without consent of the General Assembly
and that a provision could be included in the charter to have the town
take over the Johnston Sanitary District sewer system.
   Action on a new ordinance permitting motorists who plead guilty
to minor traffic offenses to pay fines at the local police station may
be taken at Monday's special North Providence Town Council meeting.
   Council president Frank SanAntonio said yesterday
he may ask the council to formally request Town Solicitor Michael A&
Abatuno to draft the ordinance.   At the last session of the
General Assembly, the town was authorized to adopt such an ordinance
as a means of making enforcement of minor offenses more effective.
Nothing has been done yet to take advantage of the enabling legislation.
   At present all offenses must be taken to Sixth District
Court for disposition. Local police have hesitated to prosecute them
because of the heavy court costs involved even for the simplest offense.
_PLAINFIELD_- James P& Mitchell and Sen& Walter H& Jones
~R-Bergen, last night disagreed on the value of using as a campaign
issue a remark by Richard J& Hughes, Democratic gubernatorial
candidate, that the ~GOP is "Campaigning on the carcass
of Eisenhower Republicanism".   Mitchell was for using it, Jones
against, and Sen& Wayne Dumont Jr& ~R-Warren did not
mention it when the three Republican gubernatorial candidates spoke
at staggered intervals before 100 persons at the Park Hotel.
The controversial remark was first made Sunday by Hughes at a Westfield
Young Democratic Club cocktail party at the Scotch Plains
Country Club. It was greeted with a chorus of boos by 500 women in
Trenton Monday at a forum of the State Federation of Women's Clubs.
   Hughes said Monday, "It is the apparent intention of
the Republican Party to campaign on the carcass of what they call Eisenhower
Republicanism, but the heart stopped beating and the lifeblood
congealed after Eisenhower retired. Now he's gone, the Republican
Party is not going to be able to sell the tattered remains to the
people of the state". Sunday he had added, "We can love Eisenhower
the man, even if we considered him a mediocre president **h but
there is nothing left of the Republican Party without his leadership".
   Mitchell said the statement should become a major issue
in the primary and the fall campaign. "How can a man with any degree
of common decency charge this"? he asked. The former secretary
of labor said he was proud to be an Eisenhower Republican "and proud
to have absorbed his philosophy" while working in his adminstration.
   Mitchell said the closeness of the outcome in last fall's
Presidential election did not mean that Eisenhower Republicanism
was a dead issue. #REGRETS ATTACK# Jones said he regretted Hughes
had made a personal attack on a past president. "He is wrong to
inject Eisenhower into this campaign", he said, "because the primary
is being waged on state issues and I will not be forced into re-arguing
an old national campaign".   The audience last night did
not respond with either applause or boos to mention of Hughes' remark.
   Dumont spoke on the merit of having an open primary. He
then launched into what the issues should be in the campaign. State
aid to schools, the continuance of railroad passenger service, the proper
uses of surplus funds of the Port of New York Authority, and
making New Jersey attractive to new industry. #DECRIES JOBLESSNESS#
Mitchell decried the high rate of unemployment in the state and said
the Meyner administration and the Republican-controlled State Senate
"Must share the blame for this". Nothing that Plainfield
last year had lost the Mack Truck Co& plant, he said industry will
not come into this state until there is tax reform.   "But
I am not in favor of a sales or state income tax at this time", Mitchell
said.   Jones, unhappy that the candidates were limited to
eight minutes for a speech and no audience questions, saved his barbs
for Mitchell. He said Mitchell is against the centralization of government
in Washington but looks to the Kennedy Administration for
aid to meet New Jersey school and transportation crises.   "He
calls for help while saying he is against centralization, but you
can't have it both ways", Jones said. The state is now faced with
the immediate question of raising new taxes whether on utilities, real
estate or motor vehicles, he said, "and I challenge Mitchell to
tell the people where he stands on the tax issue". #DEFENDS IKE#
Earlier, Mitchell said in a statement:   "I think that all
Americans will resent deeply the statements made about President
Eisenhower by Richard J& Hughes. His reference to 'discredited
carcass' or 'tattered remains' of the president's leadership
is an insult to the man who led our forces to victory in the greatest
war in all history, to the man who was twice elected overwhelmingly by
the American people as president of the United States, and who has
been the symbol to the world of the peace-loving intentions of the
free
nations.   "I find it hard to understand how anyone seeking
a position in public life could demonstrate such poor judgment and
bad taste.   "Such a vicious statement can only have its origin
in the desire of a new political candidate to try to make his name known
by condemning a man of world stature. It can only rebound to Mr&
Hughes' discredit". #SEES JONES AHEAD# Sen& Charles W&
Sandman, ~R-Cape May, said today Jones will run well ahead
of his ~GOP opponents for the gubernatorial nomination. Sandman,
state campaign chairman for Jones, was addressing a meeting in the
Military Park Hotel, Newark, of Essex County leaders and campaign
managers for Jones.   Sandman told the gathering that reports
from workers on a local level all over the state indicate that Jones
will be chosen the Republican Party's nominee with the largest majority
given a candidate in recent years.   Sandman said: "The
announcement that Sen& Clifford Case ~R-N&J&, has decided
to spend all his available time campaigning for Mr& Mitchell
is a dead giveaway. It is a desperate effort to prop up a sagging candidate
who has proven he cannot answer any questions about New Jersey's
problems.   "We have witnessed in this campaign the effort
to project Mr& Mitchell as the image of a unity candidate from
Washington. That failed.   "We are now witnessing an effort
to transfer to Mr& Mitchell some of the glow of Sen& Case's
candidacy of last year. That, too, will fail".   Sandman announced
the appointment of Mrs& Harriet Copeland Greenfield of 330
Woodland Ave&, Westfield, as state chairman of the Republican
Women for Jones Committee.   Mrs& Greenfield is president
of the Westfield Women's Republican Club and is a Westfield county
committeewoman.
   County Supervisor Weldon R& Sheets, who is a candidate for
the Democratic gubernatorial nomination, today called for an end to
paper ballots in those counties in the state which still use them. The
proposal, Sheets said, represents part of his program for election
reforms necessary to make democracy in New Jersey more than a "lip
service word".   Sheets said that his proposed law would offer
state financing aid for the purchase of voting machines, enabling
counties to repay the loan over a 10-year period without interest or charge.
Sheets added that he would ask for exclusive use of voting machines
in the state by January, 1964.   Although he pointed out
that mandatory legislation impinging on home rule is basically distasteful,
he added that the vital interest in election results transcended
county lines.
   The candidacy of Mayor James J& Sheeran of West Orange,
for the Republican nomination for sheriff
of Essex County, was supported
today by Edward W& Roos, West Orange public safety commissioner.
   Sheeran, a lawyer and former ~FBI man is running
against the Republican organization's candidate, Freeholder William
MacDonald, for the vacancy left by the resignation of Neil Duffy,
now a member of the State Board of Tax Appeals.   "My
experience as public safety commissioner", Roos said, "has shown
me that the office of sheriff is best filled by a man with law enforcement
experience, and preferably one who is a lawyer. Jim Sheeran fits
that description".
_TRENTON_- William J& Seidel, state fire warden in the Department
of Conservation and Economic Development, has retired after
36 years of service.   A citation from Conservation Commissioner
Salvatore A& Bontempo credits his supervision with a reduction
in the number of forest fires in the state.   Seidel joined the
department in 1925 as a division fire warden after graduation in 1921
from the University of Michigan with a degree in forestry and employment
with private lumber companies. In October 1944, he was appointed
state warden and chief of the Forest Fire Section.   Under
his supervision, the state fire-fighting agency developed such techniques
as plowing of fire lines and established a fleet of tractor plows
and tractor units for fire fighting.   He also expanded and modernized
the radio system with a central control station. He introduced
regular briefing sessions for district fire wardens and first aid training
for section wardens. He is credited with setting up an annual
co-operative fire prevention program in co-operation with the Red Cross
and State Department of Education.
_BOONTON_- Richard J& Hughes made his Morris County debut
in his bid for the Democratic gubernatorial nomination here last night
with a pledge "to carry the issues to every corner of the state".
   He promised nearly 200 Democratic county committee members
at the meeting in the Puddingstone Inn: "When I come back here
after the November election you'll think, 'You're my man-
you're the kind of governor we're glad we elected'".   He
said, "We Democrats must resolve our issues on the test of what
is right and just, and not what is expedient at the time". #ATTACKS
REPUBLICANS# In his only attack on the Republicans, Hughes said,
"The three Republican candidates for governor are tripping over
their feet for popular slogans to win the primary. But we'll have
a liberal, well planned, forward looking, honest platform. We'll not
talk out of one side of our mouth in Morris County and out of the
other side in Hudson.   "We'll take the truth to the people,
and the people will like the truth and elect their candidate and party
in November".   He said, "You can see signs of the Republicans'
feeble attack on the Meyner administration. But I shall
campaign on the Meyner record to meet the needs of the years ahead".
   He urged New Jersey to "become a full partner in the courageous
actions of President Kennedy". He called for a greater
attraction of industry and a stop to the piracy of industry by Southern
states, and a strong fight against discrimination in business and
industry.   "We must keep the bloodstream of New Jersey clean",
the former Superior Court judge said. "To prevent hoodlums
from infiltrating the state as they did in the Republican administration
in the early 1940s".   Calling the Democrats the "party
that lives, breathes and thinks for the good of the people", Hughes
asked, "a representative Democratic vote in the primary for a springboard
toward victory in November".   Hughes supported Gov&
Meyner's "Green Acres" plan for saving large tracts of open
land from the onrush of urban development. He said legislation for
a $60 million bond issue to underwrite the program is expected to be
introduced Monday. #CONSERVATION PLAN# The plan will provide $45
million for purchase of open land by the state. The other $15 million
is to be alloted to municipalities on a matching fund basis.
Hughes said, "This is not a plan to conquer space- but to conserve
it", pointing out the state population has increased 125,000 each
year since 1950. He said "Morris County is rapidly changing and
unless steps are taken to preserve the green areas, there will be no
land
left to preserve".   Hughes would not comment on tax reforms
or other issues in which the Republican candidates are involved. He
said no matter what stand he takes it would be misconstrued that he
was sympathetic to one or the other of the Republicans. "After the
primary", he promised, "I'll be explicit on where I stand to
bring you a strong, dynamic administration. I'm not afraid to tangle
with the Republican nominee".
_TRENTON_- Fifteen members of the Republican State Committee
who are retiring- voluntarily- this year were honored yesterday by
their colleagues.   The outgoing members, whose four-year terms
will expire a week after the April 18 primary election, received carved
wooden elephants, complete with ivory tusks, to remember the state
committee by.   There may be other 1961 state committee retirements
come April 18, but they will be leaving by choice of the Republican
voters.   A special presentation was made to Mrs& Geraldine
Thompson of Red Bank, who is stepping down after 35 years on
the committee. She also was the original ~GOP national committeewoman
from New Jersey in the early 1920s following adoption of the women's
suffrage amendment. She served one four-year term on the national
committee.
   Resentment welled up yesterday among Democratic district leaders
and some county leaders at reports that Mayor Wagner had decided
to seek a third term with Paul R& Screvane and Abraham D& Beame
as running mates.   At the same time reaction among anti-organization
Democratic leaders and in the Liberal party to the Mayor's
reported plan was generally favorable.   Some anti-organization
Democrats saw in the program an opportunity to end the bitter internal
fight within the Democratic party that has been going on for the
last three years.   The resentment among Democratic organization
leaders to the reported Wagner plan was directed particularly at
the Mayor's efforts to name his own running mates without consulting
the leaders. Some viewed this attempt as evidence that Mr& Wagner
regarded himself as bigger than the party. #OPPOSITION REPORTED#
Some Democratic district and county leaders are reported trying to
induce State Controller Arthur Levitt of Brooklyn to oppose Mr&
Wagner for the Mayoral nomination in the Sept& 7 Democratic
primary.   These contend there is a serious question as to whether
Mr& Wagner has the confidence of the Democratic rank and file
in the city. Their view is that last-minute changes the Mayor is proposing
to make in the Democratic ticket only emphasize the weakness of
his performance as Mayor.   In an apparent effort to head off
such a rival primary slate, Mr& Wagner talked by telephone yesterday
with Representative Charles A& Buckley, the Bronx Democratic
leader, and with Joseph T& Sharkey, the Brooklyn Democratic
leader. #MAYOR VISITS BUCKLEY# As usual, he made no attempt to get
in touch with Carmine G& De Sapio, the Manhattan leader. He
is publicly on record as believing Mr& De Sapio should be replaced
for the good of the party.   Last night the Mayor visited Mr&
Buckley at the Bronx leader's home for a discussion of the situation.
Apparently he believes Mr& Buckley holds the key to the Democratic
organization's acceptance of his choices for running mates
without a struggle.   In talks with Mr& Buckley last week
in Washington, the Mayor apparently received the Bronx leader's assent
to dropping Controller Lawrence E& Gerosa, who lives in the
Bronx, from this year's ticket. But Mr& Buckley seems to have
assumed he would be given the right to pick Mr& Gerosa's successor.
#SCREVANE AND BEAME HAILED# The Mayor declined in two interviews
with reporters yesterday to confirm or deny the reports that he
had decided to run and wanted Mr& Screvane, who lives in Queens,
to replace Abe Stark, the incumbent, as the candidate for President
of the City Council and Mr& Beame, who lives in Brooklyn, to
replace Mr& Gerosa as the candidate for Controller.   The
Mayor spoke yesterday at the United Irish Counties Feis on the Hunter
College Campus in the Bronx. After his speech, reporters asked
him about the report of his political intentions, published in yesterday's
New York Times. The Mayor said:   "It didn't
come from me. But as I have said before, if I announce my candidacy,
I will have something definite to say about running mates".
_BOSTON, JUNE 16_- A wave of public resentment against corruption
in government is rising in Massachusetts.   There is a tangible
feeling in the air of revulsion toward politics. The taxi driver
taking the visitor from the airport remarks that politicians in the state
are "all the same".   "It's 'See Joe, see Jim'",
he says. "The hand is out".   A political scientist writes
of the growth of "alienated voters", who "believe that voting
is useless because politicians or those who influence politicians are
corrupt, selfish and beyond popular control. **h These voters view the
political process as a secret conspiracy, the object of which is to
plunder them".   Corruption is hardly a recent development in
the city and state that were widely identified as the locale of Edwin
O'Connor's novel, "The Last Hurrah". But there are reasons
for the current spotlight on the subject.   A succession of
highly publicized scandals has aroused the public within the last year.
Graft in the construction of highways and other public works has brought
on state and Federal investigations. And the election of President
Kennedy has attracted new attention to the ethical climate of
his home state.   A reader of the Boston newspapers can hardly
escape the impression that petty chicanery, or worse, is the norm in
Massachusetts
public life. Day after day some new episode is reported.
   The state Public Works Department is accused of having spent
$8,555 to build a private beach for a state judge on his waterfront
property. An assistant attorney general is directed to investigate.
_WASHINGTON, JUNE 18_- Congress starts another week tomorrow with
sharply contrasting forecasts for the two chambers.   In the
Senate, several bills are expected to pass without any major conflict
or opposition. In the House, the Southern-Republican coalition is
expected to make another major stand in opposition to the Administration's
housing bill, while more jockeying is expected in an attempt
to advance the aid-to-education bill.   The housing bill is now
in the House Rules Committee. It is expected to be reported out Tuesday,
but this is a little uncertain.   The panel's action depends
on the return of Representative James W& Trimble, Democrat
of Arkansas, who has been siding with Speaker Sam Rayburn's forces
in the Rules Committee in moving bills to the floor. Mr& Trimble
has been in the hospital but is expected back Tuesday. #LEADERSHIP
IS HOPEFUL# The housing bill is expected to encounter strong
opposition by the coalition of Southern Democrats and conservative
Republicans. The Democratic leadership, however, hopes to pass it
sometime this week.   The $6,100,000,000 measure, which was passed
last Monday by the Senate, provides for forty-year mortgages at low
down-payments for moderate-income families. It also provides for funds
to clear slums and help colleges build dormitories.   The education
bill appears to be temporarily stalled in the Rules Committee,
where two Northern Democratic members who usually vote with the
Administration are balking because of the religious controversy. They
are James J& Delaney of Queens and Thomas P& O'Neill Jr&
of Massachusetts. #THREE GROUPS TO MEET# What could rescue
the bill would be some quick progress on a bill amending the National
Defense Education Act of 1958. This would provide for long-term
Federal loans for construction of parochial and other private-school
facilities for teaching science, languages and mathematics.
   Mr& Delaney and Mr& O'Neill are not willing to vote on the
public-school measure until the defense education bill clears the House
Education and Labor Committee.
   About half of all Peace Corps projects assigned to voluntary
agencies will be carried out by religious groups, according to an official
of the corps.   In the $40,000,000 budget that has been submitted
for Congressional approval, $26,000,000 would be spent through
universities and private voluntary agencies.   Twelve projects
proposed by private groups are at the contract-negotiation stage, Gordon
Boyce, director of relations with the voluntary agencies, said in
a Washington interview. Six of these were proposed by religious groups.
They will be for teaching, agriculture and community development
in Southeast Asia, Africa, the Middle East and Latin America.
#QUESTION RAISED# Interviews with several church leaders have disclosed
that this development has raised the question whether the Peace
Corps will be able to prevent confusion for church and state over
methods, means and goals.   There are a number of ways this could
happen, the churchmen pointed out, and here is an example:
Last month in Ghana an American missionary discovered when he came
to pay his hotel bill that the usual rate had been doubled. When he protested,
the hotel owner said:   "Why do you worry? The
U& S& Government is paying for it. The U& S& Government
pays for all its overseas workers". #MISSIONARY
EXPLAINS# "I don't work for the Government", the American
said. "I'm a missionary".   The hotel owner shrugged.
"Same thing", he said.   And then, some churchmen remarked,
there is a more classical church-state problem:   Can religious
agencies use Government funds and Peace Corps personnel in their
projects and still preserve the constitutional requirement on separation
of church and state?   R& Sargent Shriver Jr&, director
of the corps, is certain that they can. No religious group, he
declared in an interview, will receive Peace Corps funds unless it
forswears all proselytizing on the project it proposes.
_MOSCOW, JUNE 18_- At a gay party in the Kremlin for President
Sukarno of Indonesia, Premier Khrushchev pulled out his pockets
and said, beaming: "Look, he took everything I had"!
Mr& Khrushchev was jesting in the expansive mood of the successful
banker. Indonesia is one of the twenty under-developed countries of
Asia, Africa and Latin America that are receiving Soviet aid.
   The Soviet Union and other members of the Communist bloc are rapidly
expanding their economic, technical and military assistance to
the uncommitted nations.   The Communist countries allocated more
than $1,000,000,000 in economic aid alone last year, according to Western
estimates. This was the biggest annual outlay since the Communist
program for the under-developed countries made its modest beginning
in 1954. In 1960 more than 6,000 Communist technicians were present
in those countries.
_UNITED NATIONS, N& Y&, JUNE 18_- A committee of experts has
recommended that a country's population be considered in the distribution
of professional posts at the United Nations. This was disclosed
today by a responsible source amid intensified efforts by the Soviet
Union to gain a greater role in the staff and operation of the United
Nations.   One effect of the proposal, which puts a premium
on population instead of economic strength, as in the past, would
be to take jobs from European nations and give more to such countries
as India. India is the most populous United Nations member with more
than 400,000,000 inhabitants.   The new formula for filling
staff positions in the Secretariat is one of a number of recommendations
made by a panel of eight in a long and detailed report. The report
was completed after nearly eighteen months of work on the question of
the organization of the United Nations. #FORMULA IS DUE THIS WEEK#
The Advisory Committee on Administrative and Budgetary Questions
is expected to receive the report this week. The jobs formula is
understood to follow these lines: _@_ Each of the organization's
ninety-nine members would get two professional posts, such as
political affairs officer, a department head or an economist, to start.
#@# Each member would get one post for each 10,000,000 people
in its population up to 150,000,000 people or a maximum of fifteen posts.
#@# Each member with a population above 150,000,000 would
get one additional post for each additional 30,000,000 people up to
an unspecified cut-off point.
_GENEVA, JUNE 18_- The three leaders of Laos agreed today to begin
negotiations tomorrow on forming a coalition government that would
unite the war-ridden kingdom.   The decision was made in Zurich
by Prince Boun Oum, Premier of the pro-Western royal Government;
Prince Souvanna Phouma, leader of the nation's neutralists
and recognized as Premier by the Communist bloc, and Prince Souphanouvong,
head of the pro-Communist Pathet Lao forces. The latter
two are half-brothers.   Their
joint statement was welcomed by the Western delegations who will attend
tomorrow the nineteenth plenary session of the fourteen-nation conference
on the future of Laos. An agreement among the Princes on a coalition
government would ease their task, diplomats conceded. But no
one was overly optimistic. #TACTICS STUDIED IN GENEVA# W& Averell
Harriman of the United States, Malcolm MacDonald of Britain,
Maurice Couve de Murville, France's Foreign Minister, and Howard
C& Green, Canada's Minister of External Affairs, concluded,
meanwhile, a round of consultations here on future tactics in the
conference. The pace of the talks has slowed with each passing week.
   Princess Moune, Prince Souvanna Phouma's young daughter,
read the Princes' statement. They had a two-hour luncheon together
in "an atmosphere of cordial understanding and relaxation", she
said.   The three Laotians agreed upon a six-point agenda for
their talks, which are to last three days.   The Princess said
it was too early to say what would be decided if no agreement was reached
after three days. #TO DEAL WITH PRINCIPLES# The meetings in
Zurich, the statement said, would deal only with principles that would
guide the three factors in their search for a coalition Government.
   Appointment of William S& Pfaff Jr&, 41, as promotion
manager
of The Times-Picayune Publishing Company was announced Saturday
by John F& Tims, president of the company.   Pfaff succeeds
Martin Burke, who resigned.   The new promotion manager
has been employed by the company since January, 1946, as a commercial
artist in the advertising department.   He is a native of New
Orleans and attended Allen Elementary school, Fortier High school
and Soule business
college.   From June, 1942, until December,
1945, Pfaff served in the Army Air Corps. While in the service
he attended radio school at Scott Field in Belleville, Ill&.
   Before entering the service, Pfaff for five years did clerical
work with a general merchandising and wholesale firm in New Orleans.
   He is married to the former Audrey Knecht and has a daughter,
Karol, 13. They reside at 4911 Miles dr&.
_WASHINGTON_- Thousands of bleacher-type seats are being erected
along Pennsylvania Avenue between the Capitol and the White House
for the big inaugural parade on Jan& 20.   Assuming the
weather is halfway decent that day, hundreds of thousands of persons
will mass along this thoroughfare as President John F& Kennedy
and retiring President Dwight D& Eisenhower leave Capitol Hill
following the oath-taking ceremonies and ride down this historic ceremonial
route.   Pennsylvania Avenue, named for one of the original
13 states, perhaps is not the most impressive street in the District
of Columbia from a commercial standpoint. But from a historic viewpoint
none can approach it. #MANY BUILDINGS# Within view of the
avenue are some of the United States government's tremendous buildings,
plus shrines and monuments. Of course, 1600 Pennsylvania, the
White House, is the most famous address of the free world.
Within an easy walk from Capitol Hill where Pennsylvania Avenue comes
together with Constitution Avenue, begins a series of great federal
buildings, some a block long and all about seven-stories high.
   Great chapters of history have been recorded along the avenue, now
about 169 years old. In the early spring of 1913 a few hundred thousand
persons turned out to watch 5000 women parade. They were the suffragettes
and they wanted to vote. In the 1920 presidential election
they had that right and many of them did vote for the first time. #SEATS
ON SQUARE# Along this avenue which saw marching soldiers from
the War Between the States returning in 1865 is the National Archives
building where hundreds of thousands of this country's most valuable
records are kept. Also the department of justice building is
located where J& Edgar Hoover presides over the federal bureau of
investigation.   Street car tracks run down the center of Pennsylvania,
powered with lines that are underground.   Many spectators
will be occupying seats and vantage points bordering Lafayette Square,
opposite the White House. In this historic square are several
statutes, but the one that stands out over the others is that of Gen&
Andrew Jackson, hero of the Battle of New Orleans.   Moving
past the presidential viewing stand and Lafayette Square will
be at least 40 marching units. About 16,000 military members of all
branches of the armed forces will take part in the parade.   Division
one of the parade will be the service academies. Division two will
include the representations of Massachusetts and Texas, the respective
states of the President and of Vice-President L& B& Johnson.
Then will come nine other states in the order of their admission
to the union.   Division three will be headed by the Marines
followed by 12 states; division four will be headed by the Navy,
followed by 11 states; division five, by the Air Force followed
by
11 states. Division six will be headed by the Coast Guard, followed
by the reserve forces of all services, five states, Puerto Rico, the
Virgin Islands, Guam, American Samoa, the trust territories and
the Canal Zone.
_JACKSON, MISS&_- What does 1961 offer in political and governmental
developments in Mississippi?   Even for those who have
been observing the political scene a long time, no script from the past
is worth very much in gazing into the state's immediate political
future.   This is largely because of the unpredictability of the
man who operates the helm of the state government and is the elected
leader of its two million inhabitants- Gov& Ross Barnett.
   Barnett, who came into office with no previous experience in public
administration, has surrounded himself with confusion which not only
keeps his foes guessing but his friends as well.   Consequently,
it is uncertain after nearly 12 months in office just which direction
the Barnett administration will take in the coming year. #COULD
BE SCRAMBLE# Some predict the administration will settle down during
1961 and iron out the rough edges which it has had thus far.
The builtin headache of the Barnett regime thus far has been the steady
stream of job-seekers and others who feel they were given commitments
by Barnett at some stage of his eight-year quest for the governor's
office.   There are many who predict that should Barnett decide
to call the Legislature back into special session, it will really
throw his administration into a scramble.   Certainly nobody
will predict that the next time the lawmakers come back together Barnett
will be able to enjoy a re-enactment of the strange but successful
"honeymoon" he had in the 1960 legislative session.   If Barnett
doesn't call a special session in 1961, it will be the first
year in the last decade that the Legislature has not met in regular or
special session.   The odds favor a special session, more than
likely early in the year. #DISTRICTS ISSUE# Legislators always get
restless for a special session (whether for the companionship or the
$22.50 per diem is not certain) and if they start agitating. Barnett
is not expected to be able to withstand the pressure.   The issue
which may make it necessary to have a session is the highly sensitive
problem of cutting the state's congressional districts from six
to five to eliminate one congressional seat.   With eyes focused
on the third congressional district, the historic Delta district, and
Congressman Frank E& Smith as the one most likely to go, the redistricting
battle will put to a test the longstanding power which lawmakers
from the Delta have held in the Legislature.   Mississippi's
relations with the national Democratic party will be at a crossroads
during 1961, with the first Democratic president in eight years
in the White House.   Split badly during the recent presidential
election into almost equally divided camps of party loyalists and
independents, the Democratic party in Mississippi is currently a wreck.
And there has been no effort since the election to pull it back together.
#FUTURE CLOUDED# Barnett, as the titular head of the Democratic
party, apparently must make the move to reestablish relations
with the national Democratic party or see a movement come from the loyalist
ranks to completely bypass him as a party functionary.
With a Democratic administration, party patronage would normally begin
to flow to Mississippi if it had held its Democratic solidarity
in the November election.   Now, the picture is clouded, and even
~US Sens& James O& Eastland and John C& Stennis, who
remained loyal to the ticket, are uncertain of their status.
Reports are that it is more than probability that the four congressmen
from Mississippi who did not support the party ticket will be stripped
of the usual patronage which flows to congressmen.
_BATON ROUGE, LA&_- The Gov& Jimmie H& Davis administration
appears to face a difficult year in 1961, with the governor's
theme of peace and harmony subjected to severe stresses.   The
year will probably start out with segregation still the most troublesome
issue. But it might give way shortly to another vexing issue-
that of finances in state government.   The transition from segregation
to finances might already be in progress, in the form of an administration
proposal to hike the state sales tax from 2 per cent to 3
per cent.   The administration has said the sales tax proposal
is merely part of the segregation strategy, since the revenues from the
increase would be dedicated to a grant in aid program.   But the
tardiness of the administration in making the dedication has caused
legislators to suspect the tax bill was related more directly to an over-all
shortage of cash than to segregation. #LEGISLATORS WEARY#
Indeed, the administration's curious position on the sales tax was
a major factor in contributing to its defeat. The administration could
not say why $28 million was needed for a grant-in-aid program.
   The effectiveness of the governor in clearing up some of the inconsistencies
revolving about the sales tax bill may play a part in determining
whether it can muster the required two-thirds vote.   The
tax bill will be up for reconsideration Wednesday in the House when
the Legislature reconvenes.   Davis may use the tax bill as a
means to effect a transition from special sessions of the Legislature
to normalcy.   If it fails to pass, he can throw up his hands and
say the Legislature would not support him in his efforts to prevent
integration. He could terminate special sessions of the Legislature.
   Actually,
Davis would have to toss in the towel soon anyway.
Many legislators are already weary and frustrated over the so-far losing
battle to block token integration.   This is not the sort
of thing most politicos would care to acknowledge publicly. They would
like to convey the notion something is being done, even though it is
something they know to be ineffectual. #UNDERLYING CONCERN# Passage
of the sales tax measure would also give Davis the means to effect
a transition. He could tell the Legislature they had provided the
needed funds to carry on the battle.   Then he could tell them to
go home, while the administration continued to wage the battle with
the $28 million in extra revenues the sales tax measure would bring in
over an eight months period.   It is difficult to be certain how
the administration views that $28 million, since the views of one leader
may not be the same as the views of another one.   But if
the administration should find it does not need the $28 million for a
grant-in-aid program, a not unlikely conclusion, it could very well seek
a way to use the money for other purposes.   This would be in
perfect consonance with the underlying concern in the administration-
the shortage of cash. It could become an acute problem in the coming
fiscal year.   If the administration does not succeed in passing
the sales tax bill, or any other tax bill, it could very well be
faced this spring at the fiscal session of the Legislature with an interesting
dilemma.   Since the constitution forbids introduction
of a tax bill at a fiscal session, the administration will either have
to cut down expenses or inflate its estimates of anticipated revenues.
#CONSTANT PROBLEM# In either case, it could call a special session
of the Legislature later in 1961 to make another stab at raising
additional revenues through a tax raiser.   The prospect of cutting
back spending is an unpleasant one for any governor. It is one
that most try to avoid, as long as they can see an alternative approach
to the problem.   But if all alternatives should be clearly
blocked
off, it can be expected the Davis administration will take steps
to trim spending at the spring session of the state Legislature.
   This might be done to arouse those who have been squeezed out by
the trims to exert pressure on the Legislature, so it would be more
receptive to a tax proposal later in the year.   A constant problem
confronting Davis on any proposals for new taxes will be the charge
by his foes that he has not tried to economize.   Any tax bill
also will revive allegations that some of his followers have been using
their administration affiliations imprudently to profit themselves.
   The new year might see some house-cleaning, either genuine or
token, depending upon developments, to give Davis an opportunity to
combat some of these criticisms.
   City Controller Alexander Hemphill charged Tuesday that the
bids on the Frankford Elevated repair project were rigged to the advantage
of a private contracting company which had "an inside track"
with the city.   Estimates of the city's loss in the $344,000
job have ranged as high as $200,000. #'SHORTCUTS' UNNOTICED#
Hemphill said that the Hughes Steel Erection Co& contracted to
do the work at an impossibly low cost with a bid that was far less than
the "legitimate" bids of competing contractors.   The Hughes
concern then took "shortcuts" on the project but got paid anyway,
Hemphill said.   The Controller's charge of rigging was
the latest development in an investigation which also brought these
disclosures Tuesday:   {The city has sued for the full amount
of the $172,400 performance bond covering the contract.   The
Philadelphia Transportation Co& is investigating the part its
organization played in reviewing the project.   The signature of
Harold V& Varani, former director of architecture and engineering
in the Department of Public Property, appeared on payment vouchers
certifying work on the project. Varani has been fired on charges of
accepting gifts from the contractor.   Managing Director Donald
C& Wagner has agreed to cooperate fully with Hemphill after a
period of sharp disagreement on the matter}.   The announcement
that the city would sue for recovery on the performance bond was made
by City Solicitor David Berger at a press conference following
a meeting in the morning with Wagner and other officials of the city
and the ~PTC as well as representatives of an engineering firm that
was pulled off the El project before its completion in 1959. #CONCERN
BANKRUPT# The Hughes company and the Consolidated Industries,
Inc&, both of 3646 N& 2d st&, filed for reorganization under
the Federal bankruptcy law. On Monday, the Hughes concern was formally
declared bankrupt after its directors indicated they could not
draw up a plan for reorganization.   Business relations between
the companies and city have been under investigation by Hemphill and
District Attorney James C& Crumlish, Jr&. #INTERVENES IN
CASE# The suit was filed later in the day in Common Pleas Court
7 against the Hughes company and two bonding firms. Travelers Indemnity
Co& and the Continental Casualty Co&.   At Berger's
direction, the city also intervened in the Hughes bankruptcy case
in U& S& District Court in a move preliminary to filing a claim
there.   "I am taking the position that the contract was clearly
violated", Berger said.   The contract violations mostly
involve failure to perform rehabilitation work on expansion joints along
the El track. The contract called for overhauling of 102 joints.
The city paid for work on 75, of which no more than 21 were repaired,
Hemphill charged. #WIDE RANGE IN BIDS# Hemphill said the Hughes
concern contracted to do the repairs at a cost of $500 for each
joint. The bid from A& Belanger and Sons of Cambridge, Mass&,
which listed the same officers as Hughes, was $600 per joint.
   But, Hemphill added, bids from other contractors ranged from $2400
to $3100 per joint.   Berger's decision to sue for the full
amount of the performance bond was questioned by Wagner in the morning
press conference. Wagner said the city paid only $37,500 to the Hughes
company. "We won't know the full amount until we get a full
report", Wagner said.   "We can claim on the maximum amount
of the bond", Berger said.   Wagner replied, "Can't you
just see the headline: 'City Hooked for $172,000'"? #'KNOW
ENOUGH TO SUE'# Berger insisted that "we know enough to
sue for the full amount".   Douglas M& Pratt, president of
the ~PTC, who attended the meeting, said the transit company is
reviewing the work on the El.   "We want to find out who knew
about it", Pratt said. "Certain people must have known about it".
   "The ~PTC is investigating the whole matter", Pratt
said.
   Samuel D& Goodis, representing the Philadelphia Hotel Association,
objected on Tuesday to a proposed boost by the city in licensing
fees, saying that occupancy rates in major hotels here ranged
from 48 to 74 percent last year.   Goodis voiced his objection before
City Council's Finance Committee.   For hotels with
1000 rooms, the increased license fee would mean an expense of $5000
a year, Goodis said. #TESTIFIES AT HEARING# His testimony came
during a hearing on a bill raising fees for a wide variety of licenses,
permits and city services. The new fees are expected to raise an additional
$740,000 in the remainder of 1961 and $2,330,000 more a year
after that.   The ordinance would increase the fee for rooming
houses, hotels and multi-family dwellings to $5 a room. The cost of a
license now is $2, with an annual renewal fee of $1.   Goodis said
that single rooms account for 95 percent of the accomodations in some
hotels. #REVENUE ESTIMATED# The city expects the higher rooming
house, hotel and apartment house fees to bring in an additional $457,000
a year.   The increase also was opposed by Leonard Kaplan,
spokesman for the Home Builders Association of Philadelphia, on
behalf of association members who operate apartment houses.   A
proposal to raise dog license fees drew an objection from Councilwoman
Virginia Knauer, who formerly raised pedigreed dogs. The ordinance
would increase fees from $1 for males and $2 for females to a flat
$5 a dog. #COMMISSIONER REPLIES# Mrs& Knauer said she did not
think dog owners should be penalized for the city's services to animal
care.   In reply, Deputy Police Commissioner Howard R&
Leary said that the city spends more than $115,000 annually to license
and regulate dogs but collects only $43,000 in fees.   He reported
that the city's contributions for animal care included $67,000
to the Women's S&P&C&A&; $15,000 to pay six policemen
assigned as dog catchers and $15,000 to investigate dog bites. #BACKS
HIGHER FEES# City Finance Director Richard J& McConnell
indorsed the higher fees, which, he said, had been under study for more
than a year. The city is not adequately compensated for the services
covered by the fees, he said.   The new fee schedule also was
supported by Commissioner of Licenses and Inspections Barnet Lieberman
and Health Commissioner Eugene A& Gillis.
   Petitions asking for a jail term for Norristown attorney Julian
W& Barnard will be presented to the Montgomery County Court
Friday, it was disclosed Tuesday by Horace A& Davenport, counsel
for the widow of the man killed last Nov& 1 by Barnard's hit-run
car.   The petitions will be presented in open court to President
Judge William F& Dannehower, Davenport said.   Barnard,
who pleaded no defense to manslaughter and hit-run charges, was
fined $500 by Judge Warren K& Hess, and placed on two years' probation
providing he does not drive during that time. He was caught
driving the day after the sentence was pronounced and given a warning.
   Victim of the accident was Robert Lee Stansbery, 39. His
widow started the circulation of petitions after Barnard was reprimanded
for violating the probation.
   The City Planning Commission on Tuesday approved agreements
between two redevelopers and the Redevelopment Authority for the purchase
of land in the $300,000,000 Eastwick Redevelopment Area project.
   The commission also approved a novel plan that would eliminate
traffic hazards for pedestrians in the project.   One of
the agreements calls for the New Eastwick Corp& to purchase a 1311
acre tract for $12,192,865. The tract is bounded by Island ave&,
Dicks ave&, 61st st&, and Eastwick ave&. #FOUR PARKS PLANNED#
It is designated as Stage 1 Residential on the Redevelopment
Authority's master plan and will feature row houses, garden apartments,
four small parks, schools, churches, a shopping center and several
small clusters of stores.   The corporation was formed by the
Reynolds Metal Co& and the Samuel A& and Henry A& Berger
firm, a Philadelphia builder, for work in the project.   The second
agreement permits the authority to sell a 520-acre tract west of
Stage 1 Residential to Philadelphia Builders Eastwick Corp&,
a firm composed of 10 Philadelphia area builders, which is interested
in developing part of the project. #WOULD BAR VEHICLES# The plan
for eliminating traffic hazards for pedestrians was developed by Dr&
Constantinos A& Doxiadis, former Minister of Reconstruction
in Greece and a consulting planner for the New Eastwick Corp&.
   The plan calls for dividing the project into 16 sectors which would
be barred to vehicular traffic. It provides for a series of landscaped
walkways and a central esplanade that would eventually run through
the center of the entire two-and-a-half-mile length of the project.
   The esplanade eliminates Grovers ave&, which on original
plans ran through the center of the development. The esplanade would
feature pedestrian bridges over roads in the project.
_KANSAS CITY, MO&, FEB& 9 (~UPI)_- The president of the
Kansas City local of the International Association of Fire Fighters
was severly injured today when a bomb tore his car apart as he left
home for work.   Battalion Chief Stanton M& Gladden, 42,
the central figure in a representation dispute between the fire fighters
association and the teamsters union, suffered multiple fractures
of both ankles. He was in Baptist Memorial hospital. #IGNITION SETS
OFF BLAST# The battalion chief said he had just gotten into his
1958 model automobile to move it from the driveway of his home so that
he could take his other car to work.   "I'd just turned on
the ignition when there was a big flash and I was lying on the driveway",
he said.   Gladden's wife and two of his sons, John,
17, and Jim, 13, were inside the house. The younger boy said the blast
knocked him out of bed and against the wall. #HOOD FLIES OVER HOUSE#
The explosion sent the hood of the car flying over the roof of
the house. The left front wheel landed 100 feet away.   Police
laboratory technicians said the explosive device, containing either ~TNT
or nitroglycerine, was apparently placed under the left front
wheel. It was first believed the bomb was rigged to the car's starter.
   Gladden had been the target of threatening telephone calls
in recent months and reportedly received one last night.   The
fire department here has been torn for months by dissension involving
top personnel and the fight
between the fire fighters association and the
teamsters union. #LED FIGHT ON TEAMSTERS# Gladden has been an
outspoken critic of the present city administration and led his union's
battle against the teamsters, which began organizing city firemen
in 1959.   The fire fighters association here offered a $5,000 reward
for information leading to the arrest of the person or persons responsible
for the bombing. A $500 reward was offered by the association's
local in Kansas City, Kas&.   The association said
it would post 24 hour guards at Gladden's home and at those of James
Mining and Eugene Shiflett. Mining is secretary-treasurer of the
local and Shiflett is a member of its executive committee. Both have
been active in the association.
_ANKARA, TURKEY, OCT& 24 (~AP)_- Turkish political leaders
bowed today to military pressure and agreed to form an emergency national
front government with Gen& Cemal Gursel as president.
An agreement between the leaders of four parties which contested indecisive
elections on Oct& 15 was reached after almost 18 hours of political
bargaining under the threat of an army coup d'etat.   By-passing
the military junta which has ruled Turkey since the overthrow
of Premier Adnan Menderes 17 months ago, the army general staff,
led by Gen& Cedvet Sunay, had set a deadline for the parties to
join in a national coalition government.   The army leaders threatened
to form a new military government if the parties failed to sign
an eight point protocol agreeing on Gen& Gursel as president. Gen&
Gursel has headed the military junta the last 17 months.
The military also had demanded pledges that there would be no changes
in the laws passed by the junta and no leaders of the Menderes regime
now in prison would be pardoned.   Party leaders came out of
the final meeting apparently satisfied and stated that complete agreement
had been reached on a solution to the crisis created by the elections
which left no party with enough strength to form a government on its
own.
   Vincent G& Ierulli has been appointed temporary assistant
district attorney, it was announced Monday by Charles E& Raymond,
District Attorney.   Ierulli will replace Desmond D& Connall
who has been called to active military service but is expected back
on the job by March 31.   Ierulli, 29, has been practicing
in Portland since November, 1959. He is a graduate of Portland University
and the Northwestern College of Law. He is married and the
father of three children.
   Helping foreign countries to build a sound political structure
is more important than aiding them economically, E& M& Martin,
assistant secretary of state for economic affairs told members of the
World Affairs Council Monday night.   Martin, who has been
in office in Washington, D& C&, for 13 months spoke at the
council's annual meeting at the Multnomah Hotel. He told some 350
persons that the United States' challenge was to help countries build
their own societies their own ways, following their own paths.
   "We must persuade them to enjoy a way of life which, if not identical,
is congenial with ours", he said but adding that if they do
not develop the kind of society they themselves want it will lack ritiuality
and loyalty. #PATIENCE NEEDED# Insuring that the countries
have a freedom of choice, he said, was the biggest detriment to the Soviet
Union.   He cited East Germany where after 15 years of
Soviet rule it has become necessary to build a wall to keep the people
in, and added, "so long as people rebel, we must not give up".
   Martin called for patience on the part of Americans.   "The
countries are trying to build in a decade the kind of society we
took a century to build", he said.   By leaving our doors open
the United States gives other peoples the opportunity to see us and
to compare, he said. #INDIVIDUAL HELP BEST# "We have no reason
to fear failure, but we must be extraordinarily patient", the assistant
secretary said.   Economically, Martin said, the United
States could best help foreign countries by helping them help themselves.
Private business is more effective than government aid, he explained,
because individuals are able to work with the people themselves.
   The United States must plan to absorb the exported goods of
the country, at what he termed a "social cost".   Martin said
the government has been working to establish firmer prices on primary
products which may involve the total income of one country.
   The Portland school board was asked Monday to take a positive
stand towards developing and coordinating with Portland's civil defense
more plans for the city's schools in event of attack.
But there seemed to be some difference of opinion as to how far the board
should go, and whose advice it should follow.   The board members,
after hearing the coordination plea from Mrs& Ralph H&
Molvar, 1409 ~SW Maplecrest Dr&, said they thought they had already
been cooperating.   Chairman C& Richard Mears pointed
out that perhaps this was not strictly a school board problem, in case
of atomic attack, but that the board would cooperate so far as possible
to get the children to where the parents wanted them to go.
   Dr& Melvin W& Barnes,
superintendent, said he thought the schools
were waiting for some leadership, perhaps on the national level,
to make sure that whatever steps of planning they took would "be more
fruitful", and that he had found that other school districts were
not as far along in their planning as this district.   "Los Angeles
has said they would send the children to their homes in case of
disaster", he said. "Nobody really expects to evacuate. I think
everybody is agreed that we need to hear some voice on the national
level that would make some sense and in which we would have some confidence
in following.   Mrs& Molvar, who kept reiterating her request
that they "please take a stand", said, "We must have faith
in somebody- on the local level, and it wouldn't be possible for
everyone to rush to a school to get their children".   Dr&
Barnes said that there seemed to be feeling that evacuation plans, even
for a high school where there were lots of cars "might not be realistic
and would not work".   Mrs& Molvar asked again that
the board join in taking a stand in keeping with Jack Lowe's program.
The board said it thought it had gone as far as instructed so far
and asked for more information to be brought at the next meeting.
   It was generally agreed that the subject was important and the board
should be informed on what was done, is going to be done and what
it thought should be done.
_SALEM (~AP)_- The statewide meeting of war mothers Tuesday
in Salem will hear a greeting from Gov& Mark Hatfield.   Hatfield
also is scheduled to hold a public United Nations Day reception
in the state capitol on Tuesday.   His schedule calls for
a noon speech Monday in Eugene at the Emerald Empire Kiwanis Club.
   He will speak to Willamette University Young Republicans
Thursday night in Salem.   On Friday he will go to Portland
for the swearing in of Dean Bryson as Multnomah County Circuit
Judge.   He will attend a meeting of the Republican State Central
Committee Saturday in Portland and see the Washington-Oregon
football game.
   Beaverton School District No& 48 board members examined blueprints
and specifications for two proposed junior high schools at a
Monday night workshop session.   A bond issue which would have
provided some $3.5 million for construction of the two 900-student schools
was defeated by district voters in January.   Last week the
board, by a 4
to 3 vote, decided to ask voters whether they prefer the
6-3-3 (junior high school) system or the 8-4 system. Board members
indicated Monday night this would be done by an advisory poll to be
taken on Nov& 15, the same date as a $581,000 bond election for the
construction of three new elementary schools.
   Secretary of Labor Arthur Goldberg will speak Sunday night
at the Masonic Temple at a $25-a-plate dinner honoring Sen& Wayne
L& Morse, ~D-Ore&.   The dinner is sponsored by organized
labor and is scheduled for 7 p&m&.   Secretary Goldberg
and Sen& Morse will hold a joint press conference at the Roosevelt
Hotel at 4:30 p&m& Sunday, Blaine Whipple, executive secretary
of the Democratic Party of Oregon, reported Tuesday.
   Other speakers for the fund-raising dinner include Reps& Edith
Green and Al Ullman, Labor Commissioner Norman Nilsen and Mayor
Terry Schrunk, all Democrats.
_OAK GROVE (SPECIAL)_- Three positions on the Oak Lodge
Water
district board of directors have attracted 11 candidates. The election
will be Dec& 4 from 8 a&m& to 8 p&m&. Polls will be in
the water office.   Incumbent Richard Salter seeks re-election
and is opposed by Donald Huffman for the five-year term. Incumbent
William Brod is opposed in his re-election bid by Barbara Njust,
Miles C& Bubenik and Frank Lee.   Five candidates seek the
place vacated by Secretary Hugh G& Stout. Seeking this two-year
term are James Culbertson, Dwight M& Steeves, James C& Piersee,
W&M& Sexton and Theodore W& Heitschmidt.
   A stronger stand on their beliefs and a firmer grasp on their
future were taken Friday by delegates to the 29th general council of
the Assemblies of God, in session at the Memorial Coliseum.
The council revised, in an effort to strengthen, the denomination's
16 basic beliefs adopted in 1966.   The changes, unanimously adopted,
were felt necessary in the face of modern trends away from the
Bible. The council agreed it should more firmly state its belief in
and dependence on the Bible.   At the adoption, the Rev& T&
F& Zimmerman, general superintendent, commented, "The Assemblies
of God has been a bulwark for fundamentalism in these modern days
and has, without compromise, stood for the great truths of the Bible
for which men in the past have been willing to give their lives".
#NEW POINT ADDED# Many changes involved minor editing and clarification;
however, the first belief stood for entire revision with a
new third point added to the list.   The first of 16 beliefs of
the denomination, now reads:   "The scriptures, both Old and
New Testament, are verbally inspired of God and are the revelation
of God to man, the infallible, authoritative rule of faith and conduct".
   The third belief, in six points, emphasizes the Diety
of the Lord Jesus Christ, and:  - emphasizes the Virgin
birth  - the sinless life of Christ  - His miracles
  - His substitutionary work on the cross  - His bodily
resurrection from the dead  - and His exaltation to the right
hand of God. #SUPER AGAIN ELECTED# Friday afternoon the Rev&
T& F& Zimmerman was reelected for his second consecutive two-year
term as general superintendent of Assemblies of God. His offices
are in Springfield, Mo&. Election came on the nominating ballot.
   Friday night the delegates heard the need for their forthcoming
program, "Breakthrough" scheduled to fill the churches for the
next two years. In his opening address Wednesday the Rev& Mr&
Zimmerman, urged the delegates to consider a 10-year expansion program,
with "Breakthrough" the theme for the first two years.
The Rev& R& L& Brandt, national secretary of the home missions
department, stressed the need for the first two years' work.
   "Surveys show that one out of three Americans has vital contact
with the church. This means that more than 100 million have no vital
touch with the church or religious life", he told delegates Friday.
#CHURCH LOSES PACE# Talking of the rapid population growth (upwards
of 12,000 babies born daily) with an immigrant entering the United
States every 1-1/2 minutes, he said "our organization has not
been keeping pace with this challenge".   "In 35 years we have
opened 7,000 churches", the Rev& Mr& Brandt said, adding that
the denomination had a national goal of one church for every 10,000
persons.   "In this light we need 1,000 churches in Illinois,
where we have 200; 800 in Southern New England, we have 60;
we need 100 in Rhode Island, we have none", he said.   To step
up the denomination's program, the Rev& Mr& Brandt suggested
the vision of 8,000 new Assemblies of God churches in the next 10
years.   To accomplish this would necessitate some changes in methods,
he said. #'CHURCH MEETS CHANGE'# "The church's
ability to change her methods is going to determine her ability to meet
the challenge of this hour".   A capsule view of proposed plans
includes:  - Encouraging by every means, all existing Assemblies
of God churches to start new churches.  - Engaging
mature, experienced men to pioneer or open new churches in strategic population
centers.  - Surrounding pioneer pastors with vocational
volunteers (laymen, who will be urged to move into the area of new
churches in the interest of lending their support to the new project).
  - Arranging for ministerial graduates to spend from 6-12 months
as apprentices in well-established churches.
   U&S& Dist& Judge Charles L& Powell denied all motions
made by defense attorneys Monday in Portland's insurance fraud
trial.   Denials were of motions of dismissal, continuance, mistrial,
separate trial, acquittal, striking of testimony and directed
verdict.   In denying motions for dismissal, Judge Powell stated
that mass trials have been upheld as proper in other courts and that
"a person may join a conspiracy without knowing who all of the conspirators
are".   Attorney Dwight L& Schwab, in behalf of
defendant Philip Weinstein, argued there is no evidence linking Weinstein
to the conspiracy, but Judge Powell declared this is a matter
for the jury to decide. #PROOF LACK CHARGED# Schwab also declared
there is no proof of Weinstein's entering a conspiracy to use the
U&S& mails to defraud, to which federal prosecutor A& Lawrence
Burbank replied:   "It is not necessary that a defendant
actually have conpired to use the U&S& mails to defraud as long
as there is evidence of a conspiracy, and the mails were then used
to carry it out".   In the afternoon, defense attorneys began
the presentation of their cases with opening statements, some of which
had been deferred until after the government had called witnesses and
presented its case.
_MIAMI, FLA&, MARCH 17_- The Orioles tonight retained the distinction
of being the only winless team among the eighteen Major-League
clubs as they dropped their sixth straight spring exhibition decision,
this one to the Kansas City Athletics by a score of 5 to 3.
   Indications as late as the top of the sixth were that the Birds
were to end their victory draought as they coasted along with a 3-to-o
advantage.
#SIEBERN HITS HOMER# Over the first five frames, Jack
Fisher, the big righthandler who figures to be in the middle of
Oriole plans for a drive on the 1961 American League pennant, held
the ~A's scoreless while yielding three scattered hits.   Then
Dick Hyde, submarine-ball hurler, entered the contest and only
five batters needed to face him before there existed a 3-to-3 deadlock.
   A two-run homer by Norm Siebern and a solo blast by Bill
Tuttle tied the game, and single runs in the eighth and ninth gave the
Athletics their fifth victory in eight starts. #HOUSE THROWS WILD#
With one down in the eighth, Marv Throneberry drew a walk and stole
second as Hyde fanned Tuttle. Catcher Frank House's throw
in an effort to nab Throneberry was wide and in the dirt.   Then
Heywood Sullivan, Kansas City catcher, singled up the middle and
Throneberry was across with what proved to be the winning run.
   Rookie southpaw George Stepanovich relieved Hyde at the start of
the ninth and gave up the ~A's fifth tally on a walk to second baseman
Dick Howser, a wild pitch, and Frank Cipriani's single under
Shortstop Jerry Adair's glove into center.   The Orioles
once again performed at the plate in powderpuff fashion, gathering
only seven blows off the offerings of three Kansas City pitchers. Three
were doubles, Brooks Robinson getting a pair and Marv Breeding
one. #HARTMAN IMPRESSIVE# Bill Kunkel, Bob Hartman and Ed
Keegan did the mound chores for the club down from West Palm Beach
to play the game before 767 paying customers in Miami Stadium.
   The Birds got five hits and all three of their runs off Kunkel before
Hartman took over in the top of the fourth. Hartman, purchased
by the ~A's from the Milwaukee Braves last fall, allowed no hits
in his scoreless three-inning appearance, and merited the triumph.
   Keegan, a 6-foot-3-inch 158-pounder, gave up the Orioles' last
two safeties over the final three frames, escaping a load of trouble
in the ninth when the Birds threatened but
failed to tally. #ROBINSON
DOUBLES AGAIN# In the ninth, Robinson led off with his second
double of the night, a blast off the fence 375 feet deep into left.
   Whitey Herzog, performing in right as the Orioles fielded possibly
their strongest team of the spring, worked Keegan for a base on
balls.   Then three consecutive pinch-hitters failed to produce.
   Pete Ward was sent in for House and, after failing in a bunt
attempt, popped to Howser on the grass back of short.   John
Powell, batting for Adair, fanned after fouling off two 2-and-2 pitches,
and Buddy Barker, up for Stepanovich, bounced out sharply to
Jerry Lumpe at second to end the 2-hour-and-27-minute contest.
   The Orioles got a run in the first inning when Breeding, along with
Robinson, the two Birds who got a pair of hits, doubled to right
center, moved to third on Russ Snyder's single to right and crossed
on Kunkel's wild pitch into the dirt in front of the plate.
   The Flock added a pair of tallies in the third on three straight hits
after two were out.   Jackie Brandt singled deep into the hole
at short to start the rally. #LUMPE ERRS# Jim Gentile bounced
a hard shot off Kunkel's glove and beat it out for a single, and
when Lumpe grabbed the ball and threw it over first baseman Throneberry's
head Brandt took third and Gentile second on the error.
   Then Robinson slammed a long double to left center to score both
runners. When Robinson tried to stretch his blow into a triple, he
was cut down in a close play at third, Tuttle to Andy Carey.
The detailed rundown on the Kansas City scoring in the sixth went
like this:   Lumpe worked a walk as the first batter to face Hyde
and romped around as Siebern blasted Hyde's next toss 415 feet
over the scoreboard in right center. #CAREY SINGLES# Carey singled
on a slow-bouncing ball to short which Robinson cut across to field
and threw wide to first. It was ruled a difficult chance and a hit.
   Then Throneberry rapped into a fast double play. Breeding
to Adair to Gentile, setting up Tuttle's 390-foot homer over the
wall in left center.   If the Orioles are to break their losing
streak within the next two days, it will have to be at the expense
of the American League champion New York Yankees, who come in here
tomorrow for a night game and a single test Sunday afternoon.
_MIAMI, FLA&, MARCH 17_- The flavor of Baltimore's Florida
Grapefruit League news ripened considerably late today when the Orioles
were advised that Ron Hansen has fulfilled his obligations under
the Army's military training program and is ready for belated
spring training.   Hansen, who slugged the 1960 Oriole high of
22 homers and drove in 86 runs on a .255 freshman average, completes the
Birds' spring squad at 49 players.   The big, 22-year-old
shortstop, the 1960 American league "rookie-of-the year", flew here
late this afternoon from Baltimore, signed his contract for an estimated
$15,000 and was a spectator at tonight's 5-to-3 loss to Kansas
City- the winless Birds' sixth setback in a row. #15 POUNDS
LIGHTER# The 6-foot 3 inch Hansen checked in close to 200 pounds,
15 pounds lighter than his reporting weight last spring. He hopes
to melt off an additional eight pounds before the Flock breaks camp three
weeks hence.   When he was inducted into the Army at Fort
Knox, Ky&, Hansen's weight had dropped to 180- "too light
for me to be at my best" he said.   "I feel good physically",
Hansen added, "but I think I'll move better carrying a little
less weight than I'm carrying now". #SEEKS "IMPROVED FIELDING"#
The rangy, Albany (Cal&) native, a surprise slugging
sensation for the Flock last year as well as a defensive whiz, set
"improved fielding" as his 1961 goal.
   "I think I can do a better job with the glove, now that I
know the hitters around the league a little better", he said.
   Hansen will engage in his first workout at Miami Stadium prior to
the opening tomorrow night of a two-game weekend series with the New
York Yankees.   Skinny Brown and Hoyt Wilhelm, the Flock's
veteran knuckleball specialists, are slated to oppose the American
League champions in tomorrow's 8 P&M& contest. #DUREN, SHELDON
ON HILL# Ryne Duren and Roland Sheldon, a rookie righthander
who posted a 15-1 record last year for the Yanks' Auburn (N&Y&)
farm club of the Class-~D New York-Pennsylvania League,
are the probable rival pitchers.   Twenty-one-year-old Milt Pappas
and Jerry Walker, 22, are scheduled to share the Oriole mound
chores against the Bombers' Art Ditmar in Sunday's 2 P&M&
encounter.   Ralph Houk, successor to Casey Stengel at the
Yankee helm, plans to bring the entire New York squad here from
St& Petersburg, including Joe Dimaggio and large crowds are anticipated
for both weekend games. The famed Yankee Clipper, now retired,
has been assisting as a batting coach. #SQUAD CUT NEAR# Pitcher
Steve Barber joined the club one week ago after completing his hitch
under the Army's accelerated wintertime military course, also at
Fort Knox, Ky&. The 22-year-old southpaw enlisted earlier last
fall than did Hansen.   Baltimore's bulky spring-training contingent
now gradually will be reduced as Manager Paul Richards and
his coaches seek to trim it down to a more streamlined and workable unit.
#@# "Take a ride on this one", Brooks Robinson greeted
Hansen as the Bird third sacker grabbed a bat, headed for the plate
and bounced a third-inning two-run double off the left-centerfield
wall tonight.   It was the first of two doubles by Robinson,
who was in a mood to celebrate.   Just before game time, Robinson's
pretty wife, Connie informed him that an addition to the family
can be expected late next summer.   Unfortunately, Brooks'
teammates were not in such festive mood as the Orioles expired before
the seven-hit pitching of three Kansas City rookie hurlers. #@#
Hansen arrived just before nightfall, two hours late, in company
with Lee MacPhail; J& A& W& Iglehart, chairman of the
Oriole board of directors, and Public Relations Director Jack Dunn.
   Their flight was delayed, Dunn said, when a boarding ramp
inflicted some minor damage to the wing of the plane. #@# Ex-Oriole
Clint Courtney, now catching for the ~A's is all for the
American League's 1961 expansion to the West Coast.   "But
they shouldda brought in Tokyo, too", added Old Scrapiron.
"Then we'd really have someplace to go".
_BOWIE, MD&, MARCH 17_- Gaining her second straight victory,
Norman B&, Small, Jr&'s Garden Fresh, a 3-year-old filly,
downed promising colts in the $4,500 St& Patrick's Day Purse,
featured seventh race here today, and paid $7.20 straight.   Toying
with her field in the early stages, Garden Fresh was asked for
top speed only in the stretch by Jockey Philip Grimm and won by a length
and a half in 1.24 3-5 for the 7 furlongs. #8,280 ATTEND RACES#
Richard M& Forbes's Paget, which had what seemed to be a
substantial lead in the early stages, tired rapidly nearing the wire and
was able to save place money only a head in front of Glen T&
Hallowell's
Milties Miss.   A bright sun and brisk wind had the
track in a fast condition for the first time this week and 8,280 St&
Patty Day celebrants bet $842,617 on the well-prepared program.
   Prior to the featured race, the stewards announced that apprentice
James P& Verrone is suspended ten days for crowding horses and
crossing the field sharply in two races on Wednesday. #CULMONE GETS
FIRST WIN# Garden Fresh, the result of a mating of Better Self
and Rosy Fingered, seems to improve with each start and appeared to
win the St& Patrick's Day Purse with some speed in reserve.
She was moving up to the allowance department after winning a $10,000
claiming event.
_CLEVELAND, MARCH 17 (~AP)_- George Kerr, the swift-striding
Jamaican, set a meet record in the 600-yard run in the Knights of Columbus
track meet tonight, beating Purdue's Dave Mills in a hot
duel in 1.10.1.   Kerr, who set the world record earlier this month
in New York with a clocking of 1.09.3, wiped out Mills's early
pace and beat the young Big 10 quarter-mile king by 5 yards. Both
were under the meet mark of 1.10.8 set in 1950 by Mal Whitfield.
   Mills shot out in front and kept the lead through two thirds of
the race. Then Kerr, a graduate student from Illinois, moved past
him on a straightaway and held off Mills's challenge on the final turn.
Mills was timed in 1.10.4.   The crowd at the twenty-first
annual K& of C& Games, final indoor meet of the season, got a
thrill a few minutes earlier when a slender, bespectacled woman broke
the one-week-old world record in the half-mile run.   Mrs& Grace
Butcher, of nearby Chardon, a 27-year-old housewife who has two
children, finished in 2.21.6. She snapped five tenths of a second off
the mark set by Helen Shipley, of Wellsley College, in the National
A&A&U& meet in Columbus, Ohio.
_SAN FRANCISCO, MARCH 17 (~AP)_- Bobby Waters of Sylvania,
Ga&, relief quarterback for the San Francisco 49ers of the National
Football League, will undergo a knee operation tomorrow at Franklin
Hospital here.   Waters injured his left knee in the last
game of the 1960 season. While working out in Sylvania a swelling
developed in the knee and he came here to consult the team physician._ST&
PETERSBURG, FLA&, MARCH 17 (~AP)_- Two errors by New
York Yankee shortstop Tony Kubek in the eleventh inning donated
four unearned runs and a 5-to-2 victory to the Chicago White Sox
today.
_AUSTIN, TEXAS_- A Texas halfback who doesn't even know the
team's plays, Eldon Moritz, ranks fourth in Southwest Conference
scoring after three games.   Time stands still every time Moritz,
a 26-year-old Army Signal Corps veteran, goes into the field. Although
he never gets to play while the clock is running, he gets a big
kick- several every Saturday, in fact- out of football.
Moritz doesn't even have a nose guard or hip pads but he's one of
the most valuable members of the Longhorn team that will be heavily
favored Saturday over Oklahoma in the Cotton Bowl.   That's
because he already has kicked 14 extra points in 15 tries. He ran
his string of successful conversions this season to 13 straight before
one went astray last Saturday night in the 41-8 slaughter of Washington
State.   Moritz is listed on the Longhorn roster as a right
halfback, the position at which he lettered on the 1956 team. But
ask coach Darrell Royal what position he plays and you'll get the
quick response, "place-kicker".   A 208-pound, 6-foot 1-inch
senior from Stamford, Moritz practices nothing but place-kicking. Last
year, when he worked out at halfback all season, he didn't get
into a single game.   "This year, coach Royal told me if I'd
work on my place-kicking he thought he could use me", said Moritz.
"So I started practicing on it in spring training.   Moritz
was bothered during the first two games this year by a pulled muscle
in the thigh of his right (kicking) leg and, as a result, several of
his successful conversions have gone barely far enough.   Moritz
said Monday his leg feels fine and, as a result, he hopes to start
practicing field goals this week. He kicked several while playing at
Stamford High School, including one that beat Anson, 3-0, in a 1953
district game.   "I kicked about 110 extra points in 135 tries
during three years in high school", he said, "and made 26 in a
row at one time. I never did miss one in a playoff game- I kicked
about 20 in the five playoff games my last two years".   Moritz
came to Texas in 1954 but his freshman football efforts were hampered
by a knee injury. He missed the 1955 season because of an operation
on
the ailing knee, then played 77 minutes in 1956. His statistical record
that year, when Texas won only one game and lost nine, was far from
impressive: he carried the ball three times for a net gain of 10
yards, punted once for 39 yards and caught one pass for 13 yards.
   He went into the Army in March, 1957, and returned two years later.
But he was scholastically ineligible in 1959 and merely present
last season.   Place kicking is largely a matter of timing, Moritz
declared.   "Once you get the feel of it, there's not much
to it. I've tried to teach some of the other boys to kick and some
of them can't seem to get the feel. Practice helps you to get your
timing down.   "It's kind of like golf- if you don't
swing a club very often, your timing gets off".   Moritz, however,
kicks only about 10 or 12 extra points during each practice session.
   "If you kick too much, your leg gets kinda dead", he
explained. @ _FOOTNOTES:_ In their first three games, the Longhorns
have had the ball 41 times and scored 16 times, or 40 per cent
**h their total passing yardage in three games, 447 on 30 completions
in 56 attempts, is only 22 yards short of their total passing yardage
in 1959, when they made 469 on 37 completions in 86 tries **h. Tailback
James Saxton already has surpassed his rushing total for his brilliant
sophomore season, when he netted 271 yards on 55 carries; he
now has 273 yards in 22 tries during three games **h. Saxton has made
only one second-half appearance this season and that was in the Washington
State game, for four plays: he returned the kickoff 30 yards,
gained five yards through the line and then uncorked a 56-yard touchdown
run before retiring to the bench **h. Wingback Jack Collins injured
a knee in the Washington State game but insists he'll be ready
for Oklahoma **h. Last week, when Royal was informed that three
Longhorns were among the conference's top four in rushing, he said:
"That won't last long". It didn't; Monday, he had four
Longhorns in the top four **h.
   A good feeling prevailed on the ~SMU coaching staff Monday,
but attention quickly turned from Saturday's victory to next week's
problem: Rice University. The Mustangs don't play this
week.   "We're just real happy for the players", Coach Bill
Meek said of the 9-7 victory over the Air Force Academy. "I
think the big thing about the game was that our kids for the third straight
week stayed in there pitching and kept the pressure on. It was
the first time we've been ahead this season (when John Richey kicked
what proved to be the winning field goal)".   Assistant coach
John Cudmore described victory as "a good feeling, I think, on
the part of the coaches and the players. We needed it and we got it".
   Meek expressed particular gratification at the defensive
performances of end Happy Nelson and halfback Billy Gannon. Both
turned in top jobs for the second straight game.   "Nelson played
magnificent football", Meek praised. "He knocked down the interference
and made key stops lots of times. And he caused the fumble
that set up our touchdown. He broke that boy (Air Force fullback Nick
Arshinkoff) in two and knocked him loose from the football".
   Gannon contributed saving plays on the Falcons' aerial thrusts
in the late stages.   One was on a fourth-down screen pass from
the Mustang 21 after an incomplete pass into Gannon's territory.
   "As soon as it started to form, Gannon spotted it", Meek
said. "He timed it just right and broke through there before the
boy (halfback Terry Isaacson) had time to turn around. He really crucified
him **h he nailed it for a yard loss".   The Air Force's,
and the game's, final play, was a long pass by quarterback
Bob McNaughton which Gannon intercepted on his own 44 and returned
22 yards.   "He just lay back there and waited for it", Meek
said. "He almost brought it back all the way".   Except
for sophomore center Mike Kelsey and fullback Mike Rice, Meek expects
the squad to be physically sound for Rice.   "Kelsey is
very doubtful for the Rice game", Meek said. "He'll be out of
action all this week. He got hit from the blind side by the split end
coming back on the second play of the game. There is definitely some
ligament damage in his knee".   Rice has not played since injuring
a knee in the opener with Maryland.   "He's looking
a lot better, and he's able to run", Meek explained. "We'll
let him do a lot of running this week, but I don't know if he'll
be able to play".   The game players saw the Air Force film
Monday, ran for 30 minutes, then went in, while the reserves scrimmaged
for 45 minutes.   "We'll work hard Tuesday, Wednesday
and Thursday", Meek said, "and probably will have a good scrimmage
Friday. We'll work out about an hour on Saturday, then we'll
work Monday and Tuesday of next week, then taper off".   ~SMU
will play the Owls at Rice Stadium in Houston in a night game
Saturday, Oct& 21. #HUDDLE HEARSAY#- Held out of {Texas
Tech's} sweat-suits drill Monday at Lubbock was tackle {Richard
Stafford}, who is undergoing treatment for a leg injury suffered
in the Raiders' 38-7 loss to Texas ~A+~M **h Because
of its important game with Arkansas coming up Saturday, {Baylor}
worked out in the rain Monday- mud or no mud **h End {Gene
Raesz}, who broke a hand in the Owl's game with ~LSU, was back
working out with {Rice}
Monday, and {John Nichols}, sophomore
guard, moved back into action after a week's idleness with an ankle
injury **h The {Texas Aggies} got a day off Monday- a special
gift from Coach Jim Myers for its conference victory last Saturday
night, but Myers announced that halfback {George Hargett},
shaken up in the Tech game, would not play against Trinity Saturday
**h Halfback {Bud Priddy}, slowed for almost a month by a
slowly-mending sprained ankle, joined ~{TCU's} workout Monday.
   The Dallas Texans were back home Monday with their third victory
in four American Football League starts- a 19-12 triumph over
the Denver Broncos- but their visit will be a short one.
The Texans have two more road games- at Buffalo and Houston-
before they play for the home folks again, and it looks as if coach Hank
Stram's men will meet the Bills just as they are developing into
the kind of team they were expected to be in pre-season reckonings.
   Buffalo coach Buster Ramsey, who has become one of the game's
greatest collectors of quarterbacks, apparently now has found a productive
pair in two ex-National Football Leaguers, M& C& Reynolds
and Warren Rabb.   Rabb, the former Louisiana State
field general, came off the bench for his debut with the Bills Sunday
and directed his new team to a 22-12 upset victory over the Houston
Oilers, defending league champions.   "Just our luck"! exclaimed
Stram. "Buster would solve that quarterback problem just
as we head that way".   Ramsey has a thing or two to mutter about
himself, for the Dallas defensive unit turned in another splendid
effort against Denver, and the Texans were able to whip the dangerous
Broncs without the fullbacking of a top star, Jack Spikes, though
he did the team's place-kicking while nursing a knee injury.
   "Our interior line and out linebackers played exceptionally well",
said Stram Monday after he and his staff reviewed movies of the
game. "In fact our whole defensive unit did a good job".
The Texans won the game through ball control, with Quarterback Cotton
Davidson throwing only 17 passes.   "We always like to keep
the ball as much as we can against Denver because they have such an
explosive attack", explained Stram. "They can be going along,
doing little damage, then bang, bang- they can hit a couple of passes
on you for touchdowns and put you in trouble".   The Broncs
did hit two quick strikes in the final period against the Texans, but
Dallas had enough of a lead to hold them off.   The principal
tactic in controlling the ball was giving it to Abner Haynes, the flashy
halfback. He was called upon 26 times- more than all of the other
ball-carriers combined- and delivered 145 yards.   The Texans
made themselves a comforting break on the opening kickoff when Denver's
Al Carmichael was jarred loose from the ball when Dave Grayson,
the speedy halfback, hit him and Guard Al Reynolds claimed
it for Dallas. A quick touchdown resulted.   "That permitted
us to start controlling the ball right away", said Stram, quipping,
"I think I'll put that play in the book".
   The early Southwest Conference football leaders- Texas, Arkansas
and Texas ~A+~M- made a big dent in the statistics last
week.   Texas' 545-yard spree against Washington State gave
the Longhorns a 3-game total offense of 1,512 yards (1,065 rushing
and 447 passing) a new ~SWC high.   Arkansas combined 280
yards rushing with 64 yards passing (on 5 completions in 7 tosses) and
a tough defense to whip ~TCU, and ~A+~M, with a 38-point
bulge against Texas Tech ran up its biggest total loop play since 1950.
Completing 12 of 15 passes for 174 yards, the Aggies had a total
offense of 361 yards.   Texas leads in per-game rushing averages,
355 yards, and passing 149 (to Baylor's 126), but idle Baylor has
the best defensive record (187.5 yards per game to Texas' 189).
~A+~M has the best defense against passes, 34.7 yards per game.
   Not satisfied with various unofficial checks on the liveliness
of baseballs currently in use, the major leagues have ordered their own
tests, which are in progress at Massachusetts Institute of Technology.
   {Rookie Ron Nischwitz continued his pinpoint pitching Monday
night as the Bears made it two straight over Indianapolis, 5-3}.
   The husky 6-3, 205-pound lefthander, was in command all the
way before an on-the-scene audience of only 949 and countless of television
viewers in the Denver area.   It was Nischwitz' third
straight victory of the new season and ran the Grizzlies' winning
streak to four straight. They now lead Louisville by a full game on
top of the American Association pack.   {Nischwitz fanned six
and walked only Charley Hinton in the third inning. He has given
only the one pass in his 27 innings, an unusual characteristic for a
southpaw}.   The Bears took the lead in the first inning, as
they did in Sunday's opener, and never lagged.   Dick McAuliffe
cracked the first of his two doubles against Lefty Don Rudolph
to open the Bear's attack. After Al Paschal gruonded out, Jay
Cooke walked and Jim McDaniel singled home McAuliffe. Alusik then
moved Cooke across with a line drive to left. Jay Porter drew a
base on balls to fill the bases but Don Wert's smash was knocked
down by Rudolph for the putout.   The Bears added two more in
the fifth when McAuliffe dropped a double into the leftfield corner,
Paschal doubled down the rightfield line and Cooke singled off Phil
Shartzer's glove.   {Nischwitz was working on a 3-hitter
when the Indians bunched three of their eight hits for two runs in the
sixth. Chuck Hinton tripled to the rightfield corner, Cliff Cook
and Dan Pavletich singled and Gaines' infielder roller accounted
for
the tallies}.   The Bears added their last run in the sixth
on Alusik's double and outfield flies by Porter and Wert.
   Gaines hammered the ball over the left fence for the third Indianapolis
run in the ninth.   Despite the 45-degree weather the game
was clicked off in 1:48, thanks to only three bases on balls and some
good infield play.   Chico Ruiz made a spectacular play on Alusik's
grounder in the hole in the fourth and Wert came up with some
good stops and showed a strong arm at third base. #BINGLES AND BOBBLES:#
{Cliff Cook} accounted for three of the Tribe's
eight hits **h It was the season's first night game and an obvious
refocusing of the lights are in order **h The infield was well flooded
but the expanded outfield was much too dark **h {Mary Dobbs Tuttle}
was back at the organ **h Among the spectators was the noted exotic
dancer, {Patti Waggin} who is Mrs& Don Rudolph when off
the stage. **h {Lefty Wyman Carey}, another Denver rookie,
will be on the mound against veteran {John Tsitouris} at 8 o'clock
Tuesday night **h {Ed Donnelly} is still bothered by a side
injury and will miss his starting turn.
_DALLAS, TEX&, MAY 1- (~AP)_- Kenny Lane of Muskegon,
Mich&, world's seventh ranked lightweight, had little trouble in
taking a unanimous decision over Rip Randall of Tyler, Tex&, here
Monday night.
_ST& PAUL-MINNEAPOLIS, MAY 1- (~AP)_- {Billy Gardner's
line double, which just eluded the diving Minnie Minoso in left
field, drove in Jim Lemon with the winning run with two out in the
last of the ninth to give the Minnesota Twins a 6-5 victory over the
Chicago White Sox Monday}.   Lemon was on with his fourth
single of the game, a liner to center. He came all the way around on
Gardner's hit before 5777 fans. It was Gardner's second run batted
in of the game and his only ones of the year.   Turk Lown
was tagged with the loss, his second against no victories, while Ray
Moore won his second game against a single loss.   The Twins tied
the score in the sixth inning when Reno Bertoia beat out a high
chopper to third base and scored on Lenny Green's double to left.
   The White Sox had taken a 5-4 lead in the top of the sixth on
a pair of pop fly hits- a triple by Roy Sievers and single by Camilo
Carreon- a walk and a sacrifice fly.   Jim Landis' 380-foot
home run over left in the first inning gave the Sox a 1-0 lead,
but Harmon Killebrew came back in the bottom of the first with his
second homer in two days with the walking Bob Allison aboard.
   Al Smith's 340-blast over left in the fourth- his fourth homer
of the campaign- tied the score and Carreon's first major league
home run in the fifth put the Sox back in front.   A double by
Green, Allison's run-scoring 2-baser, an infield single by Lemon
and Gardner's solid single to center put the Twins back in front
in the last of the fifth.
_OGDEN, UTAH, MAY 1- (~AP)_- Boston Red Sox Outfielder
Jackie Jensen said Monday night he was through playing baseball.
   "I've had it", he told a newsman. "I know when my reflexes
are gone and I'm not going to be any 25th man on the ball club".
   This was the first word from Jensen on his sudden walkout.
   Jensen got only six hits in 46 at-bats for a .130 batting average
in the first 12 games.   He took a midnight train out of Cleveland
Saturday, without an official word to anybody, and has stayed
away from newsmen on his train trip across the nation to Reno, Nev&,
where his wife, former Olympic Diving Champion Zoe Ann Olsen,
awaited.   She said, when she learned Jackie was heading home:
"I'm just speculating, but I have to think Jack feels he's
hurting Boston's chances".   The Union Pacific Railroad
streamliner, City of San Francisco, stopped in Ogden, Utah, for
a few minutes. Sports Writer Ensign Ritchie of the Ogden Standard
Examiner went to his compartment to talk with him.   The conductor
said to Ritchie: "I don't think you want to talk to him.
You'll probably get a ball bat on the head. He's mad at the
world".   But Jackie had gone into the station. Ritchie walked
up to him at the magazine stand.   "I told him who I was and
he was quite cold. But he warmed up after a while. I told him what
Liston had said and he said Liston was a double-crosser and said anything
he (Liston) got was through a keyhole. He said he had never
talked to Liston".   Liston is Bill Liston, baseball writer
for the Boston Traveler, who quoted Jensen as saying:
"I
can't hit anymore. I can't run. I can't throw. Suddenly my
reflexes are gone.
   {JUST WHEN IT SEEMS baseball might be losing its grip on
the masses up pops heroics to start millions of tongues to wagging}.
   And so it was over the weekend what with 40-year-old Warren
Spahn pitching his no-hit masterpiece against the Giants and the Giants'
Willie Mays retaliating with a record-tying 4-homer spree
Sunday.   Both, of course, were remarkable feats and further embossed
the fact that baseball rightfully is the national pastime.
   Of the two cherished achievements the elderly Spahn's hitless pitching
probably reached the most hearts.   It was a real stimulant
to a lot of guys I know who have moved past the 2-score-year milestone.
And one of the Milwaukee rookies sighed and remarked, "Wish
I was 40, and a top-grade big leaguer. #@# {THE MODEST
AND
HAPPY} Spahn waved off his new laurels as one of those good days.
But there surely can be no doubt about the slender southpaw belonging
with the all-time great lefthanders in the game's history.
   Yes, with Bob Grove, Carl Hubbell, Herb Pennock, Art Nehf,
Vernon Gomez, et al.   {Spahn not only is a superior pitcher
but a gentlemanly fine fellow, a ball player's ball player, as they
say in the trade}.   I remember his beardown performance in
a meaningless exhibition game at Bears Stadium Oct& 14, 1951, before
a new record crowd for the period of 18,792. #@# {"SPAHNIE
DOESN'T KNOW} how to merely go through the motions", remarked
Enos Slaughter, another all-out guy, who played rightfield that
day and popped one over the clubhouse.   The spectacular Mays,
who reaches a decade in the big leagues come May 25, joined six other
sluggers who walloped four home runs in a span of nine innings.
   {Incidentally, only two did it before a home audience. Bobby Lowe
of Boston was the first to hit four at home and Gil Hodges turned
the trick in Brooklyn's Ebbetts Field}.   Ed Delahanty
and Chuck Klein of the Phillies, the Braves' Joe Adcock, Lou
Gehrig of the Yankees, Pat Seerey of the White Sox and Rocky
Colavito, then with Cleveland, made their history on the road. #@#
{WILLIE'S BIG DAY REVIVED} the running argument about
the
relative merits of Mays and Mickey Mantle.   This is an issue
which boils down to a matter of opinion, depending on whether you're
an American or National fan and anti or pro-Yankee. The record
books, however, would favor the Giants' ace.   In four of his
nine previous seasons Mays hit as many as 25 home runs and stole as
many as 25 bases. Once the figure was 30-30. Willie's lifetime batting
average of .318 is 11 points beyond Mickey's.   {The
Giants who had been anemic with the bat in their windy Candlestick
Park suddenly found the formula in Milwaukee's park. It will forever
be a baseball mystery how a team will suddenly start hitting after
a distressing slump}. #@# {THE DENVER-AREA ~TV}
audience was privileged to see Mays' four home runs, thanks to a
new arrangement made by Bob Howsam that the games are not to be blacked
out when his Bears are playing at home.   This rule providing
for a blackout of televised baseball 30 minutes before the start of
a major or minor league game in any area comes from the game's top
rulers.   {The last couple of years the Bears management got
the business from the "Living Room Athletic Club" when games
were cut off. Actually they were helpless to do anything about the nationwide
policy}.   This year, I am told, the ~CBS network
will continue to abide by the rule but ~NBC will play to a conclusion
here. There are two more Sunday afternoons when the situation
will arise.   It is an irritable rule that does baseball more
harm than good, especially at the minor league level. You would be surprised
how many fans purposely stayed away from Bears Stadium last
year because of the television policy.   This dissatisfaction led
to Howsam's request that the video not be terminated before the end
of the game.
_CINCINNATI, OHIO (~AP)_- The powerful New York Yankees
won their 19th world series in a 5-game romp over outclassed Cincinnati,
crushing the Reds in a humiliating 13-5 barrage Monday in the loosely
played finale.   With Mickey Mantle and Yogi Berra both
out of action due to injuries, the American League champs still mounted
a 15-hit attack against a parade of eight Cincinnati pitchers,
the most ever used by one team in a series game.   Johnny Blanchard,
Mantle's replacement, slammed a 2-run homer as the Yankees routed
loser Joey Jay in a 5-run first inning. Hector Lopez, subbing
for Berra, smashed a 3-run homer off Bill Henry during another 5-run
explosion in the fourth.   The Yanks also took advantage of
three Cincinnati errors.   The crowd of 32,589 had only two chances
to applaud.   In the third Frank Robinson hammered a long
home run deep into the corner of the bleachers in right center, about
400 feet away, with two men on. Momentarily the Reds were back in
the ball game, trailing only 6-3, but the drive fizzled when John Edwards
fouled out with men on second and third and two out.   In
the fifth, Wally Post slashed a 2-run homer off Bud Daley, but by
that time the score was 11-5 and it really didn't matter.   The
Yankee triumph made Ralph Houk only the third man to lead a team
to both a pennant and a World Series victory in his first year as a
manager. Only Bucky Harris, the "boy-manager" of Washington in
1924, and Eddie Dyer of the St& Louis Cardinals in 1946 had accomplished
the feat.
_PHILADELPHIA, JAN& 23_- Nick Skorich, the line coach for the
football champion Philadelphia Eagles, was elevated today to head
coach.   Skorich received a three-year contract at a salary believed
to be between $20,000 and $25,000 a year. He succeeds Buck Shaw,
who retired at the end of last season.   The appointment was
announced at a news conference at which Skorich said he would retain
two members of Shaw's staff- Jerry Williams and Charlie Gauer.
   Williams is a defensive coach. Gauer works with the ends.
#CHOICE WAS EXPECTED# The selection had been expected. Skorich
was considered the logical choice after the club gave Norm Van Brocklin
permission to seek the head coaching job with the Minnesota Vikings,
the newest National Football League entry.   Van Brocklin,
the quarterback who led the Eagles to the title, was signed by the
Vikings last Wednesday. Philadelphia permitted him to seek a better
connection after he had refused to reconsider his decision to end
his career as a player.   With Skorich at the helm, the Eagles
are expected to put more emphasis on running, rather than passing. In
the past the club depended largely on Van Brocklin's aerials.
   Skorich, however, is a strong advocate of a balanced attack- split
between running and passing. #COACH PLAYED 3 YEARS# Skorich,
who is 39 years old, played football at Cincinnati University and
then had a three-year professional career as a lineman under Jock Sutherland
with the Pittsburgh Steelers.   An injury forced Skorich
to quit after the 1948 season. He began his coaching career at Pittsburgh
Central Catholic High School in 1949. He remained there
for four years before moving to Rensselaer Polytechnic Institute
in Troy, N& Y&. He was there one season before rejoining the Steelers
as an assistant coach.   Four years later he resigned to
take a similar job with the Green Bay Packers. The Eagles signed
him for Shaw's staff in 1959.   Skorich began his new job auspiciously
today. At a ceremony in the reception room of Mayor Richardson
Dilworth, the Eagles were honored for winning the championship.
   Shaw and Skorich headed a group of players, coaches and team
officials who received an engrossed copy of an official city citation
and a pair of silver cufflinks shaped like a football.
   With the announcement of a "special achievement award" to
William A& (Bill) Shea, the awards list was completed yesterday
for Sunday night's thirty-eighth annual dinner and show of the New
York Chapter, Baseball Writers' Association of America, at the
Waldorf-Astoria Hotel.   Shea, the chairman of Mayor Wagner's
Baseball Committee, will be joined on the dais by Warren Spahn,
the southpaw pitching ace of the Milwaukee Braves; Frank Graham,
the Journal-American sports columnist; Bill Mazeroski, the
World Series hero of the Pittsburgh Pirates, and Casey Stengel,
the former manager of the Yankees.   Stengel will receive the
Ben Epstein Good Guy Award. Mazeroski, whose homer beat the Yankees
in the final series game, will receive the Babe Ruth Award as
the outstanding player in the 1960 world series.   Graham will
be recognized for his meritorious service to baseball and will get the
William J& Slocum Memorial Award. To Spahn will go the Sid
Mercer Memorial Award as the chapter's player of the year. #SHOW
FOLLOWS CEREMONIES# A crowd of 1,400 is expected for the ceremonies,
which will be followed by the show in which the writers will lampoon
baseball personalities in skit, dance and song.   The 53-year-old
Shea, a prominent corporation lawyer with a sports background,
is generally recognized as the man most responsible for the imminent return
of a National League club to New York. Named by Mayor Wagner
three years ago
to head a committee that included James A& Farley,
Bernard Gimbel and Clint Blume, Shea worked relentlessly.
   His goal was to obtain a National League team for this city. The
departure of the Giants and the Dodgers to California left New York
with only the Yankees.   Despite countless barriers and disappointments,
Shea moved forward. When he was unable to bring about
immediate expansion, he sought to convince another National League
club to move here.   When that failed, he enlisted Branch Rickey's
aid in the formation of a third major league, the Continental,
with New York as the key franchise. The Continental League never
got off the ground, but after two years it forced the existing majors
to expand. #FLUSHING STADIUM IN WORKS# The New York franchise
is headed by Mrs& Charles Shipman Payson. A big-league municipal
stadium at Flushing Meadow Park is in the works, and once the lease
is signed the local club will be formally recognized by Commissioner
Ford C& Frick. Shea's efforts figure prominently in the new
stadium.   Shea and his wife, Nori, make their home at Sands
Point, L& I&. Bill Jr&, 20; Kathy, 15, and Patricia,
9, round out the Shea family.   Shea was born in Manhattan. He
attended New York University before switching to Georgetown University
in Washington. He played basketball there while working toward
a law degree.   Later, Shea owned and operated the Long Island
Indians, a minor league professional football team. He was the lawyer
for Ted Collins' old Boston Yankees in the National Football
League. #@# All was quiet in the office of the Yankees
and the local National Leaguers yesterday. On Friday, Roger Maris,
the Yankee outfielder and winner of the American League's most-valuable-player
award, will meet with Roy Hamey, the general manager.
Maris is in line for a big raise.
   Arnold Palmer and Sam Snead will be among those honored at
the national awards dinner of the Metropolitan Golf Writers Association
tonight. The dinner will be held at the Hotel Pierre.
Palmer, golf's leading money-winner in 1960, and Snead will be saluted
as the winning team in the Canada Cup matches last June in Dublin.
Deane Beman, the National Amateur champion, and all the metropolitan
district champions, including Bob Gardner, the amateur title-holder,
also will receive awards.   The writers' Gold Tee
Award will go to John McAuliffe of Plainfield, N& J&, and
Palm Beach, Fla&, for his sponsorship of charity tournaments. Horton
Smith of Detroit, a former president of the Professional Golfers
Association, will receive the Ben Hogan Trophy for his comeback
following a recent illness.   The principal speaker will be Senator
Stuart Symington, Democrat of Missouri.
#GOLF'S GOLDEN BOY# ARNOLD PALMER has been a blazing figure
in golf over the past twelve months. He won the Masters, the United
States Open and a record $80,738 in prize money. He was heralded
as "Sportsman of the Year" by Sports Illustrated, and last night
was acclaimed in Rochester as the "Professional Athlete of the
Year", a distinction that earned for him the $10,000 diamond- studded
Hickok Belt.   But he also achieved something that endeared
him to every duffer who ever flubbed a shot. A couple of weeks ago,
he scored a monstrous 12 on a par-5 hole. It made him human. And
it also stayed the hands of thousands of brooding incompetents who were
meditating the abandonment of a sport whose frustrations were driving
them to despair. If such a paragon of perfection as Palmer could
commit such a scoring sacrilege, there was hope left for all.   It
was neither a spirit of self-sacrifice nor a yen to encourage the downtrodden
that motivated Arnold. He merely became victimized by a form
of athletics that respects no one and aggravates all. The world's
best golfer, shooting below par, came to the last hole of the opening
round of the Los Angeles open with every intention of delivering
a final crusher. He boomed a 280-yard drive. Then the pixies and the
zombies took over while the banshees wailed in the distance. #NO MARGIN
FOR ERROR# On the narrow fairway of a 508-yard hole, Arnold whipped
into his second shot. The ball went off in a majestic arc, an
out-of-bounds slice. He tried again and once more sliced out of bounds.
He hooked the next two out of bounds on the opposite side.
"It is possible that I over-corrected", he said ruefully. Each
of the four wayward shots cost him two strokes. So he wound up with a
dozen.   "It was a nice round figure, that 12", he said as
he headed for the clubhouse, not too much perturbed.   From the
standpoint of the army of duffers, however, this was easily the most heartening
exhibition they had had since Ben Hogan fell upon evil ways
during his heyday and scored an 11 in the Texas open. The idol of
the hackers, of course, is Ray Ainsley, who achieved a 19 in the United
States Open. Their secondary hero is another pro, Willie Chisholm,
who drank his lunch during another Open and tried to blast his
way out of a rock-strewn gully. Willie's partner was Long Jim Barnes,
who tried to keep count. #STICKLER FOR RULES# "How many
is that, Jim"? asked Willie at one stage of his excavation project.
   "Thirteen", said Long Jim.   "Nae, man",
said Willie, "ye must be countin' the echoes". He had a 16.
   Palmer's dozen were honestly earned. Nor were there any rules
to save him. If there had been, he would have found a loophole, because
Arnold is one golfer who knows the code as thoroughly as the man
who wrote the book. This knowledge has come in handy, too.   His
first shot in the Open last year landed in a brook that flowed along
the right side of the fairway. The ball floated downstream. A spectator
picked up the ball and handed it to a small boy, who dropped this
suddenly hot potato in a very playable lie.   Arnold sent for
Joe Dey, the executive secretary of the golf association. Joe naturally
ruled that a ball be dropped from alongside the spot where it had
originally entered the stream.   "I knew it all along", confessed
Arnold with a grin, "but I just happened to think how much
nicer it would be to drop one way up there".   For a serious young
man who plays golf with a serious intensity, Palmer has such an
inherent sense of humor that it relieves the strain and keeps his nerves
from jangling like banjo strings. Yet he remains the fiercest of competitors.
He'll even bull head-on into the rules when he is sure
he's right. That's how he first won the Masters in 1958.
It happened on the twelfth hole, a 155-yarder. Arnold's iron shot
from
the tee burrowed into the bunker guarding the green, an embankment
that had become soft and spongy from the rains, thereby bringing local
rules into force. #RULING FROM ON HIGH# "I can remove the ball,
can't I"? asked Palmer of an official.   "No", said
the official. "You must play it where it lies".   "You're
wrong", said Arnold, a man who knows the rules. "I'll do
as you say, but I'll also play a provisional ball and get a
ruling".
   He scored a 4 for the embedded ball, a 3 with the provisional
one. The golfing fathers ruled in his favor. So he picked up a stroke
with the provisional ball and won the tournament by the margin of
that stroke.   Until a few weeks ago, however, Arnold Palmer
was some god-like creature who had nothing in common with the duffers.
But after that 12 at Los Angeles he became one of the boys, a bigger
hero than he ever had been before.
   A formula to supply players for the new Minneapolis Vikings
and
the problem of increasing the 1961 schedule to fourteen games will
be discussed by National Football League owners at a meeting at the
Hotel Warwick today.   Other items on the agenda during the
meetings, which are expected to continue through Saturday, concern television,
rules changes, professional football's hall of fame, players'
benefits and constitutional amendments.   The owners would
like each club in the fourteen-team league to play a home-and-home series
with teams in its division, plus two games against teams in the other
division. However, this would require a lengthening of the season
from thirteen to fourteen weeks.   Pete Rozelle, the league commissioner,
pointed out:   "We'll have the problem of baseball
at one end and weather at the other".   Nine of the league's
teams play in baseball parks and therefore face an early-season
conflict in dates.
   If the Cardinals heed Manager Gene Mauch of the Phillies,
they won't be misled by the Pirates' slower start this season.
   "Pittsburgh definitely is the team to beat", Mauch said here
the other day. "The Pirates showed they could outclass the field
last year. They have the same men, no age problem, no injuries and
they also have Vinegar Bend Mizell for the full season, along with
Bobby Shantz".   Tonight at 8 o'clock the Cardinals, who
gave the Pirates as much trouble as anyone did in 1960, breaking even
with them, will get their first 1961 shot at baseball's world champions.
The Pirates have a 9-6 record this year and the Redbirds are
7-9. #CHANGE IN PITCHERS.# Solly Hemus announced a switch in his
starting pitcher, from Bob Gibson to Ernie Broglio, for several
reasons: 1. Broglio's 4-0 won-lost record and 1.24 earned-run mark
against Pittsburgh a year ago; 2. The desire to give Broglio as
many starts as possible; 3. The Redbirds' disheartening 11-7 collapse
against the Phillies Sunday.   Manager Hemus, eager to
end a pitching slump that has brought four losses in the five games
on the current home stand, moved Gibson to the Wednesday night starting
assignment. After Thursday's open date, Solly plans to open with
Larry Jackson against the Cubs here Friday night.   Harvey
Haddix, set back by the flu this season, will start against his former
Cardinal mates, who might be playing without captain Kenny Boyer
in tonight's game at Busch Stadium. Boyer is suffering from a stiff
neck.   Haddix has a 13-8 record against the Redbirds, despite
only a 1-3 mark in 1960.   Pirate Manager Danny Murtaugh
said he hadn't decided between Mizell and Vern Law for Wednesday's
game. Mizell has won both of his starts. #NIEMAN KEPT IN LINEUP.#
After a lengthy workout yesterday, an open date, Hemus said that
Bob Nieman definitely would stay in the lineup. That means Stan
Musial probably will ride the bench on the seventh anniversary of his
record five-home run day against the Giants.   "I have to stay
with Nieman for a while", Hemus said. "Bill White (sore ankles)
should be ready. With a lefthander going for Pittsburgh, I may
use Don Taussig in center".   "Lindy McDaniel threw batting
practice about 25 minutes, and he looked good", Hemus said. "He
should be getting back in the groove before long. Our pitching
is much better than it has shown".   The statistics hardly indicated
that the Pirates needed extra batting practice, but Murtaugh
also turned his men loose at Busch Stadium yesterday. #SIX BUCKS OVER
.300.# Until the Bucs' bats quieted down a bit in Cincinnati
over the weekend, the champions had eight men hitting over .300. Despite
the recession, Pittsburgh came into town with this imposing list
of averages: Smoky Burgess .455, Gino Cimoli .389, Bill Virdon
.340, Bob Clemente and Dick Groat, each .323, Dick Stuart .306,
Don Hoak .280 and Bob Skinner .267.   Bill Mazeroski with
.179 and Hal Smith with .143 were the only Pirates dragging their
feet.   Perhaps the Pirate who will be the unhappiest over the
news that Musial probably will sit out most of the series is Bob Friend,
who was beaten by The Man twice last season on dramatic home
runs. Friend is off to a great start with a 4-0 record but isn't likely
to see action here this week.   "We're getting Friend
some runs for a change, and he has been pitching good", Murtaugh said.
"Virdon has been blasting the ball. No plunkers for him". #SIX
BUCS OVER .300.# The Pirates jumped off to an 11-3 start by May
1 last year, when the Redbirds as well as the Dodgers held them
even over the season. On last May 1, the Cardinals stood at 7-6, ending
a two-season fall-off on that milestone. In 1958, the Birds were
3-10 on May 1. A year later they were 4-13.   Since 1949, the
St& Louis club has been below .500 on May 1 just four times. The
'49 team was off to a so-so 5-5 beginning, then fell as low as 12-17
on May 23 before finishing with 96 victories.   The '52 Cards
were 6-7 on May 1 but ended with 88 triumphs, the club's top
since
1949. Then last season the Birds tumbled as low as 11-18 on May
19 before recovering to make a race of it and total 86 victories.
   Since 1949, the only National League club that got off to a hot
start and made a runaway of the race was the '55 Dodger team. Those
Dodgers won their first 10 games and owned a 21-2 mark and a nine-game
lead by May 8. The club that overcame the worst start in a comparable
period to win the pennant was New York's '51 Giants, who
dropped 11 of their first 13.
   They honored the battling Billikens last night. Speakers at
a Tipoff Club dinner dealt lavish praise to a group of St& Louis
University players who, in the words of Coach John Benington, "had
more confidence in themselves than I did".   The most valuable
player award was split three ways, among Glen Mankowski, Gordon
Hartweger and Tom Kieffer. In addition, a special award was given
to Bob (Bevo) Nordmann, the 6-foot-10 center who missed much of
the season because of a knee injury.   "You often hear people
talk about team spirit and that sort of thing", Benington said in a
conversation after the ceremonies, "but what this team had was a little
different. The boys had a tremendous respect for each other's
ability. They knew what they could do and it was often a little more
than I thought they could do.
   "Several times I found the players
pepping me up, where it usually is the coach who is supposed to
deliver the fight talk. We'd be losing at halftime to a good team
and Hartweger would say, 'Don't worry, Coach- we'll get 'em
all right'".   The trio who shared the most-valuable honors
were introduced by Bob Broeg, sports editor of the Post-Dispatch.
   Kieffer, the only junior in the group, was commended for his
ability to hit in the clutch, as well as his all-round excellent play.
   Mankowski, the ball-hawking defensive expert, was cited for
his performance against Bradley in St& Louis U&'s nationally
televised victory. Benington said, "I've never seen a player
have a game as great as Mankowski did against Bradley that day".
   Benington recalled that he once told Hartweger that he doubted
Gordon would ever play much for him because he seemed to be lacking
in all of the accepted basketball skills. After the coach listed all
the boy's faults, Hartweger said, "Coach before I leave here,
you'll get to like me".   Mrs& Benington admired Gordon's
spirit and did what she could to persuade her husband that the boy
might help the team.   As Hartweger accepted his silver bowl,
he said, "I want to thank coach's wife for talking him into letting
me play".   Bob Burnes, sports editor of the Globe-Democrat,
presented Bob Nordmann with his award. Bevo was congratulated for
his efforts to stay in shape so that he could help the team if his
knee healed in time. Within a week after the injury, suffered in St&
Louis's victory in the final game of the Kentucky tournament, Nordmann
was sitting on the Bill's bench doing what he could to help
Benington.   On the clock given him was the inscription, "For
Outstanding Contribution to Billiken Basketball, 1960-61".
   Other lettermen from the team that compiled a 21-9 record and finished
as runner-up in the National Invitation Tournament were:
Art Hambric, Donnell Reid, Bill Nordmann, Dave Harris, Dave Luechtefeld
and George Latinovich.   "This team set a precedent
that could be valuable in the future", Benington pointed out. "By
winning against Bradley, Kentucky and Notre Dame on those teams'
home courts, they showed that the home court advantage can be overcome
anywhere and that it doesn's take a super team to do it".
   St& Louis University found a way to win a baseball game. Larry
Scherer last night pitched a no-hit game, said to be the first
in Billiken baseball history, as the Blue and White beat Southeast
Missouri State College, 5-1, at Crystal City.   The victory
was the first of the season for the Billikens after nine defeats and
a tie. The tie was against Southeast Missouri last Friday.
Scherer also had a big night at bat with four hits in five trips including
a double, Len Boehmer also was 4-for-5 with two doubles and Dave
Ritchie had a home run and a triple.   St& Louis U&
was to be in action again today with a game scheduled at 4 against Washington
University at Ligget Field.   The game opened a busy
week for Washington. The Bears are set to play at Harris Teachers
College at 3:30 tomorrow and have a doubleheader at Quincy, Ill&,
Saturday.
#HAPPY HITTING# If it's true that contented cows give more milk,
why shouldn't happy ball players produce more base hits?
The two top talents of the time, Mickey Mantle and Willie Mays,
have
hit the ball harder and more successfully so far this early season
than at any period in careers which, to be frank about it, never have
quite reached expectations.   And that's meant as a boost, not
a knock.   Mays and Mantle, both 10-year men at 30, have so
much ability that, baseball men agree, they've never hit the heights.
Their heights, that is.   Mantle, the bull-necked blond switch-hitter,
had one sensational triple-crown season, 1959, when he batted
.365 and also led the American League in home runs, 52, and ~RBIs,
130.   Like the Yankees' slugger, Mays, the terror of
the Giants, has had seasons that would be considered the ultimate by
most players, but not by- or for- Willie. His best years were 1954
when he hit .345 with 41 homers and '55 when he belted 51 home runs,
drove in 127 and stole 24 bases.   Now, apparently happier
under new managers, Mays and Mantle, the perfect players, are behaving
as though they're going to pass those previous peaks. #LABOR RELATIONS#
Yes, we know, they're professionals, men paid to play, and
they shouldn't care how they're handled, just as long as their
names are spelled correctly on the first and fifteenth of each month.
   The truth is, though, that men react differently to different
treatment. For that matter, Stan Musial is rare, possessing the disposition
that enabled him to put out the same for seven managers, reserving
his opinions, but not
his effort.   Mantle, it's apparent,
resented Casey Stengel's attempts to push and prod him into the
perfection the veteran manager saw as a thrilling possibility. The old
man was almost too possessive. Stengel inherited DiMaggio, Rizzuto,
but HE brought up Mantle from Class ~C to the majors, from
Joplin to New York.   With the speed and power of the body
beautiful he saw before him, Ol' Case wanted No& 7 to be not
only the best homerun hitter, but also the best bunter, base-runner and
outfielder. Stengel probably preached too much in the early days when
the kid wanted to pop his bubble gum and sow his oats.   Inheriting
a more mature Mantle, who now has seen the sights on and off Broadway,
Ralph Houk quietly bestowed, no pun intended, the mantle of
authority on Mickey. The Major decided that, rather than be led,
the slugger could lead. And what leadership a proud Mantle has given
so far.   The opinion continues here that with a 162-game schedule,
pitching spread thin through a 10-team league and a most inviting
target in Los Angeles' Wrigley Field Jr&, Mantle just might
break the most glamorous record on the books, Babe Ruth's 60 homers
of 1927. #FOUR FOR ALVIN# Mays' day came a day earlier for
Willie than for the kids and Commies this year. Willie's wonderful
walloping Sunday- four home runs- served merely to emphasize how
happy he is to be playing for Alvin Dark.   Next to Leo Durocher,
Dark taught Mays the most when he was a grass-green rookie rushed
up to the Polo Grounds 10 years ago this month, to help the Giants
win a dramatic pennant.
   ROMANTIC news concerns Mrs& Joan Monroe Armour and
F& Lee H& Wendell, who are to be married at 4:30 p& m& tomorrow
in the Lake Forest home of her brother, J& Hampton Monroe,
and Mrs& Monroe. Only the families and a dozen close friends
will be present.   The bride's brother, Walter D& Monroe
Jr&, will give her in marriage. In the small group will be the junior
and senior Mrs& Walter Monroe; the bridegroom's parents,
the Barrett Wendells, who are returning from a winter holiday in Sarasota,
Fla&, for the occasion; and his brother, Mr& Wendell
Jr&, and his wife, who will arrive from Boston. Mr& Wendell Jr&
will be best man.   Also present will be the bride's children,
Joan, 13, and Kirkland, 11. Their father is Charles B& Armour.
The bridegroom's children were here for the Christmas holidays
and can't return. Young Peter Wendell, a student at the Westminster
school, has measles, and his sister, Mrs& Andrew Thomas,
and her husband, who live in Missoula, Mont&, have a new baby. Their
mother is Mrs& Camilla Alsop Wendell.   Mr& Wendell
and his bride will live in his Lake Forest house. They will take a
wedding trip later. #'BACK WITH THE MET'# "We are back with
the 'Met' again now that the 'Met' is back in
Chicago",
bulletins Mrs& Frank S& Sims, president of the women's board
of the University of Chicago Cancer Research Foundation. The New
York Metropolitan Opera Company will be here in May, and the board
will sponsor the Saturday night, May 13, performance of "Turandot"
as a benefit. Birgit Nilsson will be starred.   "Housed
in the new McCormick Place theater, this should prove to be an
exciting evening", adds Mrs& Sims. The board's last money raising
event was a performance by Harry Belafonte- "quite off-beat
for this group", decided some of the members. Mrs& Henry T&
Sulcer of Winnetka, a new board member, will be chairman of publicity
for the benefit. Her husband recently was appointed vice president
of the university, bringing them back here from the east. #PARICHY-HAMM#
Because of the recent death of the bride's father, Frederick
B& Hamm, the marriage of Miss Terry Hamm to John Bruce Parichy
will be a small one at noon tomorrow in St& Bernadine's church,
Forest Park. A small reception will follow in the Oak Park Arms
hotel.   Mrs& Hamm will not come from Vero Beach, Fla&,
for the wedding. However, Mr& Parichy and his bride will go
to Vero Beach on their wedding trip, and will stay in the John G&
Beadles' beach house. The Beadles formerly lived in Lake Forest.
   Harvey B& Stevens of Kenilworth will give his niece in
marriage. Mr& and Mrs& Stevens and the bride's other uncles
and aunts, the Rush C& Butlers, the Homer E& Robertsons, and
the David Q& Porters, will give the bridal dinner tonight in the
Stevenses' home. #HERE AND THERE# The Chicago Press club will
fete George E& Barnes, president of the United States Lawn
Tennis association, at a cocktail party and buffet supper beginning
at 5:30 p& m& tomorrow. Later, a bus will carry members to the
Chicago Stadium to see Jack Kramer's professional tennis matches
at 8 p& m&.
   WITH loud huzzahs for the artistic success of the Presbyterian-St&
Luke's Fashion show still ringing in her ears, its director,
Helen Tieken Geraghty [Mrs& Maurice P& Geraghty]
is taking off tomorrow on a 56 day world trip which should earn her even
greater acclaim as director of entertainment for next summer's International
Trade fair. Armed with letters from embassies to ministers
of countries, especially those in the near and far east, Mrs&
Geraghty "will beat the bushes for oriental talent".   "We
[the Chicago Association of Commerce and Industry] expect to establish
closer relations with nations and their cultural activities,
and it will be easy as a member of the fair staff to bring in acts",
explains Mrs& Geraghty. "For instance, Djakarta, Indonesia,
has three groups of dancers interested in coming here. I'm even going
to try to get the whirling dervishes of Damascus"!   The
last obstacle in Mrs& Geraghty's globe-girdling trip was smoothed
out when a representative of Syria called upon her to explain that
his brother would meet her at the border of that country- so newly
separated from Egypt and the United Arab Republic that she hadn't
been able to obtain a visa. #FIRST, HONOLULU# Honolulu will be
Mrs& Geraghty's first stop. Then Japan, Hong Kong, Manila,
India, Pakistan, Damascus, Beirut, and to Rome, London, and Paris
"to look over wonderful talent".   Dec& 22 is the deadline
for Mrs& Geraghty's return; the Geraghtys' youngest daughter,
Molly, bows in the Passavant Debutante Cotillion the next
night. Molly already has her cotillion gown, and it's fitted, says
her mother. Also, invitations have been addressed to Molly's debut
tea the afternoon of Dec& 29 in the Arts club.   It won't
be a "tea", however, but more of an international folk song festival,
with singers from Chicago's foreign groups to sing Christmas
songs from around the world. The international theme will be continued
with the Balkan strings playing for a dinner the Byron Harveys will
give in the Racquet club after the tea. Miss Abra Prentice's
debut supper dance in the Casino will wind up the day. #BURKE-ROSTAGNO#
The Richard S& Burkes' home in Wayne may be the setting
for the wedding reception for their daughter, Helen Lambert, and the
young Italian she met last year while studying in Florence during
her junior year at Smith college. He is Aldo Rostagno, son of the
Guglielmo Rostagnos of Florence whom the Burkes met last year in
Europe. The Burkes, who now live in Kankakee, are telling friends
of the engagement.   Miss Burke, a graduate of Miss Hall's
school, stayed on in Florence as a career girl. Her fiance, who is with
a publishing firm, translates many books from English into Italian.
He will be coming here on business in December, when the wedding
is to take place in Wayne. Miss Burke will arrive in December also.
#HERE AND THERE# A farewell supper Mr& and Mrs& Charles
H& Sethness Jr& planned Sunday for Italian Consul General
and Mrs& Giacomo Profili has been canceled because Mr& Sethness
is in Illinois Masonic hospital for surgery.   Mrs& William
Odell, Mrs& Clinton B& King, John Holabird Jr&, Norman
Boothby, and Actress Maureen O'Sullivan will judge the costumes
in the grand march at the Affaire Old Towne Bal Masque tomorrow
in the Germania club. The party is to raise money for the Old Town
Art center and to plant more crabapple trees along the streets of
Old Town.
   LYON AROUND: Columnist Walter Winchell, well and
rat-a-tat-tatty
again, wheeled thru town between trains yesterday en route
to his Phoenix, Ariz&, rancho, portable typewriter in hand. If W&
W&'s retiring soon, as hinted, he ain't talking- yet. **h
Pretty Sunny Ainsworth, the ex-Mrs& Tommy Manville and the
ex-Mrs& Bud Arvey, joined Playboy-Show-Biz Illustrated, as a
promotional copy writer. She's a whiz. **h You can get into an argument
about fallout shelters at the drop of a beer stein in clubs and
pubs these nights. Everybody has a different idea on the ethics and morals
of driving away neighbors, when and if. **h Comic Gary Morton
signed to play the Living Room here Dec& 18, because that's the
only time his heart, Lucille Ball, can come along. And watch for
a headline from this pair any time now. ## {The Living Room has
another scoop: Jane Russell will make one of her rare night club
singing appearances there, opening Jan& 22. La Russell's run
in "Skylark", debuting next week at Drury Lane, already is a sellout.
**h Johnny Ray, at the same L& R&, has something to
cry
about. He's been warbling in severe pain; a medico's injection
inflamed a nerve, and Johnny can barely walk. **h Charley Simonelli,
top Universal-International
film studio exec, makes an honest man out
of this column. As we bulletin'd way back, he'll wed pretty Rosemary
Strafaci, of the Golf Mag staff, in N& Y& C& today.
Handsome bachelor Charley was a favorite date of many of Hollywood's
glamor gals for years}. @
## GEORGE SIMON, exec director
of Danny Thomas A& L& S& A& C& [Aiding Leukemia
Stricken American Children] fund raising group, filled me in on the
low-down phonies who are using phones to solicit funds for Danny's
St& Jude hospital in Memphis. There is no such thing as an "emergency
telephone building fund drive". The only current event they're
staging is the big show at the Stadium Nov& 25, when Danny
will entertain thousands of underprivileged kids. You can mail contribs
to Danny Thomas, Post Office Box 7599, Chicago. So, if anybody
solicits by phone, make sure you mail the dough to the above. **h
Olivia De Havilland signed to do a Broadway play for Garson Kanin
this season, "A Gift of Time". She'll move to Gotham after
years in Paris. ## {Gorgeous Doris Day and her producer-hubby,
Marty Melcher, drive in today from a motor tour thru New England.
D& D& will pop up with ~U-~I Chief Milt Rackmil
at the Carnegie theater tomorrow to toast 300 movie exhibitors. It'll
be an all day affair with screenings of Doris' new one, "Lover
Come Back", and "Flower Drum Song". **h Whee the People:
Lovely Thrush Annamorena gave up a promising show biz career to
apply glamor touches to her hubby, Ray Lenobel's fur firm here.
Typical touch: She sold a $10,000 morning light mink to Sportsman
Freddie Wacker for his frau,
Jana Mason, also an ex-singer. In honor
of the Wackers' new baby. Fur goodness sake!} @ ##
EMCEE
Jack Herbert insists Dick Nixon's campaign slogan for governor
of California is, "Knight Must Fall"! **h Give generously
when you buy candy today for the Brain Research Foundation. It's
one of our town's worthiest charities. **h Best Bet for Tonight:
That darlin' dazzler from Paree, Genevieve, opening in the
Empire room. **h Dave Trager, who is quite a showman and boss of Chicago's
new pro basketball Packers, is debuting a new International
club, for the exclusive use of season ticket holders, in the Stock
Yards Inn. Jump off is tomorrow night when the Packs meet St&
Louis in their season home opener. **h Nobody's mentioned it, but
when ol' Casey Stengel takes over as boss of the New York Mets,
he'll be the only baseballight ever to wear the uniform of all New
York area clubs, past and present: Yankees, Dodgers, Giants, and
now the Mets. **h And Bernie Kriss calls the bayonet clashes at
Berlin's Brandenburg Gate, "The Battle of the Sentry"!
## THE JOTTED LYON: This mad world dept&: Khrush and
the Kremlin crowd are confident all right. They're contaminating
the earth's atmosphere including their own via mighty megaton bombs
but their own peasants still don't know about it! **h More: On
the free world side. Albert John Luthuli, awarded a Nobel prize
for his South African integration struggles, has to get permission to
fly to collect his honor. Hmpf **h But on to the frothier side **h
Johnny Weissmuller, the only real Tarzan, telephoned Maureen O'Sullivan,
his first "Jane" [now at Drury Lane, and muttered,
"Me Tarzan, this Jane"? Snapped Maureen, "Me Jane"!
**h Actually Johnny is a glib, garrulous guy, with a rare sense of
humor. Everywhere he went in town, people sidled up, gave him the guttural
bit or broke into a frightening Tarzan yodel. He kids his Tarzan
roles more than anyone. ## {"La Dolce Vita", the dynamite
Italian flicker, opens at popular prices at the Loop theater
Nov& 2. My idea of masterful movie making. **h Bill Veeck's health
is back to the dynamo stage, but his medics insist he rest for several
more months before getting back into the baseball swim. William
keeps up with our town's doings daily, via the Tribune, and he tells
me he never misses the Ticker. That's our boy Bill. **h Jean
Fardulli's Blue Angel is the first top local club to import that
crazy new dance, the Twist. They'll start lessons, too, pronto. **h
A cheer here for Francis Lorenz, state treasurer, who will meet
with the probate advisory board of the Chicago Bar association, for
suggestions on how to handle the opening of safety deposit boxes after
somebody dies.
   After being closed for seven months, the Garden of the Gods
Club will have its gala summer opening Saturday, June 3.   Music
for dancing will be furnished by {Allen Uhles} and his orchestra,
who will play each Saturday during June.   Members and guests
will be in for an added surprise with the new wing containing 40
rooms and suites, each with its own private patio.   {Gene
Marshall}, genial manager of the club, has announced that the Garden
of the Gods will open to members Thursday, June 1.   Beginning
July 4, there will be an orchestra playing nightly except Sunday
and Monday for the summer season.   {Mrs& J& Edward Hackstaff}
and {Mrs& Paul Luette} are planning a luncheon next
week in honor of {Mrs& J& Clinton Bowman}, who celebrates
her birthday on Tuesday.   {Mr& and Mrs& Jerry Chase}
announce the birth of a daughter, {Sheila}, on Wednesday in
Mercy Hospital.   Grandparents are {Mr& and Mrs& Robert
L& Chase} and {Mr& and Mrs& Guy Mullenax} of Kittredge.
   Mrs& Chase is the former {Miss Mary Mullenax}.
#BACK TO W& COAST# {Mrs& McIntosh Buell} will
leave
Sunday to return to her home in Santa Barbara, Calif&, after spending
a week in her Polo Grounds home.   {Mrs& John C&
Vroman Jr}& of Manzanola is spending several days in her Sherman
Plaza apartment.   {Mr& and Mrs& Merrill Shoup}
have returned to their home in Colorado Springs after spending a few
days at the Brown Palace Hotel.   {Brig& Gen& and
Mrs& Robert F& McDermott} will entertain at a black tie dinner
Wednesday, May 3, in the Officers' Club at the Air Force
Academy. #COCKTAIL PARTY# {Mr& and Mrs& Piero de Luise}
will honor Italian {Consul and Mrs& Emilio Bassi} at a
cocktail party Tuesday, May 2, from 6 to 8 p&m& in their home. The
Bassis are leaving soon for their new post.   There will be
a stag dinner Friday evening at the Denver Country Club which will
precede the opening of the 1961 golf season.   Cocktails will
be served from 6 to 7 p&m&, with dinner at 7 and entertainment in
the main dining room immediately following.   {Miss Betsy Parker}
was one of the speakers on the panel of the Eastern Women's
Liberal Arts College panel on Wednesday evening in the Security
Life Bldg&.   Guests were juniors in the public high schools.
#FASHION SHOW# The committee for the annual Central City fashion
show has been announced by {Mrs& D& W& Moore}, chairman.
   The event, staged yearly by Neusteters, will be held in
the Opera House Wednesday, Aug& 16. It will be preceded by luncheon
in the Teter House.   {Mrs& Roger Mead} is head
of the luncheon table decorations {Mrs& Stanley Wright} is
ticket chairman and {Mrs& Theodore Pate} is in charge of publicity.
   Members of the committee include {Mrs& Milton Bernet,
Mrs& J& Clinton Bowman, Mrs& Rollie W& Bradford,
Mrs& Samuel Butler Jr&, Mrs& Donald Carr Campbell, Mrs&
Douglas Carruthers, Mrs& John C& Davis /3,, Mrs&
Cris Dobbins, Mrs& William E& Glass, Mrs& Alfred Hicks
/2,, Mrs& Donald Magarrell, Mrs& Willett Moore, Mrs& Myron
Neusteter, Mrs& Richard Gibson Smith, Mrs& James S&
Sudier /2,} and {Mrs& Thomas Welborn}.   The first
committee meeting will be held on May 19.   {Mr& and Mrs&
Andrew S& Kelsey} of Washington, D&C&, announce the birth
of a daughter, {Kira Ann Kelsey}, on Monday in Washington,
D&C&.   Grandparents are {Mr& and Mrs& R&L&
Rickenbaugh} and {Mr& and Mrs& E&O& Kelsey} of
Scarsdale, N&Y&.   Mrs& Kelsey is the former {Miss
Ann Rickenbaugh}.
   A cheery smile, a compassionate interest in others and a practical
down-to-earth approach.   Those qualities make {Esther Marr}
a popular asset at the Salvation Army's Social
Center at 1200 Larimer st&.   The pert, gray-haired woman
who came to Denver three years ago from Buffalo, N&Y&, is
a "civilian" with the Army.   Her position covers a number
of daily tasks common to any social director. The job also covers a
number of other items.   "Mom" Marr, as the more than 80 men
at the center call her,
is the link that helps to bridge the gulf between
alcoholics and the outside world and between parolees and society.
   Her day starts early, but no matter how many pressing letters
there are to be written (and during May, which is National Salvation
Army Week, there are plenty), schedules to be made or problems
to be solved, Mrs& Marr's office is always open and the welcome
mat is out.   {MRS& MARR} is the first contact a Skid
Row
figure talks to after he decides he wants to pick himself up.
   She sees that there is a cup of steaming hot coffee awaiting him and
the two chat informally as she presents the rules of the center and
explains procedures.   "Usually at this point a man is withdrawn
from society and one of my jobs is to see that he relearns to mingle
with his fellow men", Mrs& Marr explained.   The Denverite
has worked out an entire program to achieve this using the facilities
of the center.   "And I bum tickets to everything I can",
she said. "I've become the greatest beggar in the world".
   {IN ADDITION}
to the tickets to the movies, sporting events
and concerts, Mrs& Marr lines up candy and cookies because alcoholics
require a lot of sweets to replace the sugar in their system.
   Mrs& Marr also has a number of parolees to "mother", watching
to see that they do not break their parole and that they also learn
to readjust to society.
   By mid-June, millions of Americans will take to the road on
vacation trips up and down and back and forth across this vast and lovely
land.   In another four weeks, with schools closed across the
nation, the great all-American summer safari will be under way. By
July 1, six weeks from now, motel-keepers all over the nation will,
by 6 p&m&, be switching on that bleak- to motorists- sign, "No
Vacancy".   No matter how many Americans go abroad in
summer, probably a hundred times as many gas up the family car, throw
suitcases, kids and comic books in the back seat, and head for home. And
where is "home", that magic place of the heart?   Ah,
that is simple. Home is where a man was born, reared, went to school
and, most particularly, where grandma is. That is where we turn in the
good old summertime.   The land lies ready for the coming onslaught.
My husband and I, a month ahead of the rush, have just finished
a 7-day motor journey of 2809 miles from Tucson, Ariz&, to New
York City: #SET FOR INFLUX# I can testify that motels, service
and comfort stations (they go together like Scots and heather), dog
wagons, roadside restaurants, souvenir stands and snake farms are braced
and waiting.   I hope it can be said without boasting that
no other nation offers its vacationing motorists such variety and beauty
of scene, such an excellent network of roads on which to enjoy it and
such decent, far-flung over-night accommodations.   Maybe motel-keeping
isn't the nation's biggest industry, but it certainly looks
that way from the highway.   There are motels for all purposes
and all tastes. There are even motels for local weather peculiarities,
as I discovered in Shamrock, Tex&. There the Royal Motel
advertises "all facilities, vented heat, air conditioned, carpeted,
free ~TV, storm cellar". #MANY WITH POOLS# Innumerable motels
from Tucson to New York boast swimming pools ("swim at your
own risk" is the hospitable sign poised at the brink of most pools).
Some even boast two pools, one for adults and one for children. But
the Royal Motel in Shamrock was the only one that offered the comfort
and security of a storm cellar.   Motorists like myself who
can remember the old "tourists accommodated" signs on farm houses
and village homes before World War /2, can only marvel at the great
size and the luxury of the relatively new and fast-grossing motel business.
#ALL FOR $14!# At the Boxwood Motel in Winchester,
Va&, we accidentally drew the honeymoon suite, an elegant affair with
wall-to-wall carpeting, gold and white furniture, pink satin brocade
chairs, 24-inch ~TV and a pink tile bath with masses of pink towels.
All for $14.   That made up for the "best" motel in Norman,
Okla&, where the proprietor knocked $2 off the $8.50 tab when
we found ants in the pressed-paper furniture.
   Oxnard, Calif&, will be the home of the Rev& Robert D&
Howard and his bride, the former Miss Judith Ellen Gay, who were
married Saturday at the Munger Place Methodist Church.
Parents of the bride are Mr& and Mrs& Ferris M& Gay, 7034
Coronado. The bridegroom is the son of Mrs& James Baines of Los
Angeles, Calif&, and Carl E& Howard of Santa Monica, Calif&.
He is a graduate of ~UCLA and Perkins School of Theology,
~SMU.   Dr& W& B& I& Martin officiated, and
the bride was given in marriage by her father. Honor attendants for
the couple were Miss Sandra Branum and Warren V& McRoberts.
   The couple will honeymoon in Sequoia National Park, Calif&.
   Miss Joan Frances Baker, a graduate of ~SMU, was married
Saturday to Elvis Leonard Mason, an honor graduate of Lamar State
College of Technology, in the chapel of the First Presbyterian
Church of Houston.   The bride, daughter of Rhodes Semmes
Baker Jr& of Houston and the late Mrs& Baker, was president of
Kappa Kappa Gamma and a member of Mortar Board at ~SMU. Her
husband, who is the son of Alton John Mason of Shreveport, La&,
and the late Mrs& Henry Cater Parmer, was president of Alpha
Tau Omega and a member of Delta Sigma Pi at Lamar Tech, and did
graduate work at Rhodes University in Grahamstown, South Africa,
on a Rotary Fellowship.   The Rev& Richard Freeman of
Texas City officiated and Charles Pabor and Mrs& Marvin Hand
presented music. The bride was given in marriage by her father.
   She wore a court-length gown of organdy designed with bateau neckline
and princesse skirt accented by lace appliques. Her veil was caught
to a crown, and she carried gardenias and stephanotis.   Miss
Mary Ross of Baird was maid of honor, and bridesmaids were Miss Pat
Dawson of Austin, Mrs& Howard M& Dean of Hinsdale, Ill&,
and Mrs& James A& Reeder of Shreveport, La&.   Cecil
Mason of Hartford, Conn&, was best man for his brother, and
groomsmen were Rhodes S& Baker /3, of Houston, Dr& James
Carter of Houston and Conrad McEachern of New Orleans, La&.
Lee Jackson and Ken Smith, both of Houston, and Alfred Neumann
of Beaumont seated guests.   After a reception at The Mayfair,
the newlyweds left for a wedding trip to New Orleans, La&. They
will live in Corpus Christi.
   Miss Shirley Joan Meredith, a former student of North Texas
State University, was married Saturday to Larry W& Mills, who
has attended Arlington State College. They will live at 2705 Fitzhugh
after a wedding trip to Corpus Christi.   Parents of the
couple are Ray Meredith of Denton and the late Mrs& Meredith
and Mrs& Hardy P& Mills of Floresville and the late Mr& Mills.
   The Rev& Melvin Carter officiated at the ceremony
in Slaughter Chapel of the First Baptist Church. Dan Beam presented
music and the bride was given in marriage by her father.
She wore a gown of satin designed along princesse lines and featuring
a flared skirt and lace jacket with bateau neckline. Her veil was
caught to a pearl headdress, and she carried stephanotis and orchids.
   Miss Glenda Kay Meredith of Denton was her sister's maid
or honor, and Vernon Lewelleyn of San Angelo was best man. Robert
Lovelace and Cedric Burgher Jr& seated guests. A reception was
held at the church.
   The First Christian Church of Pampa was the setting for the
wedding last Sunday of Miss Marcile Marie Glison and Thomas Earl
Loving Jr&, who will live at 8861 Gaston after a wedding trip
to New Orleans, La&   The bride, daughter of Mr& and Mrs&
Charles Ervin Glison of Pampa, has attended Texas Woman's
University and will continue her studies at ~SMU.
   "A Night in New Orleans" is the gayety planned by members
of the Thrift Shop Committee for May 6 at Philmont Country Club.
The women have a reputation for giving parties that are different
and are fun and this year's promises to follow in this fine tradition.
Mrs& H& J& Grinsfelder is chairman.   The Louisiana
city is known, of course, for its fine food, good music and its colorful
hospitality "and,
when guests arrive at Philmont that night",
says Mrs& Grinsfelder, "that is exactly what we expect to offer
them. We've been working for weeks. The prospects look great.
We are keeping a number of surprises under our hats. But we can't
tell it all now and then have no new excitement later". #BASIN STREET
BEAT# But she does indicate festivities will start early, that
a jazz combo will "give with the Basin Street beat" during the
cocktail and dinner hours and that Lester Lanin's orchestra will take
over during the dancing.   As for food, Mrs& Henry Louchheim,
chairman of this phase,
is a globetrotter who knows good food. "New
Orleans"? she says, "of course I've had the best. It
is just bad luck that we are having the party in a month with no ~R's,
so no oysters. But we have lots of other New Orleans specialties.
I know they will be good. We've tried them out on the club chef-
or say, he has tried them out on us and we have selected the best".
#SCENIC EFFECTS# Guests will be treated to Gulf Coast scenic
effects. There will be masses of flowers, reproductions of the
handsome old buildings with their grillwork and other things that are
typical of New Orleans. Mrs& Harry K& Cohen is chairman of this
phase and she is getting an artistic assist from A& Van Hollander,
display director of Gimbel Brothers.   The gala is the Thrift
Shop's annual bundle party and, as all Thrift Shop friends
know, that means the admission is a bundle of used clothing in good condition,
contributions of household equipment, bric-a-brac and such to
stock the shelves at the shop's headquarters at 1213 Walnut St&.
#BUNDLE CENTERS# For the convenience of guests bundle centers
have been established throughout the city and suburbs where the donations
may be deposited between now and the date of the big event. In addition
to the bundles, guests pay the cost of their dinners. Members
of the young set who would like to come to the party only during the dancing
time are welcomed.   The Thrift Shop, with Mrs& Bernhard
S& Blumenthal as president, is one of the city's most successful
fund-raisers for the Federation of Jewish Agencies. Some idea
of the competence of the women is indicated in the contribution made
by them during the past 25 years that totals $840,000. #IT'S BIG
BUSINESS# "Big business, this little Thrift Shop business",
say the members. For most of the 25 years the operation was under feminine
direction. In the past few years the men, mostly husbands of members,
have taken an interest. Louis Glazer is chairman of the men's
committee that, among other jobs, takes over part of the responsibility
for staffing the shop during its evening hours.   Mrs& Theodore
Kapnek is vice chairman of the committee for the gala. Mrs&
Richard Newburger is chairman of hostesses.   Mrs& Arthur
Loeb is making arrangements for a reception; Mrs& Joan Lichtenstein,
for publicity; Mrs& Harry M& Rose, Jr&, for secretarial
duties; Mrs& Ralph Taussig, for junior aides; Mr& and
Mrs& B& Lewis Kaufnabb, for senior aides, and Mrs& Samuel
P& Weinberg, for the bundles.   In addition, Mr& and Mrs&
Allan Goodman are controllers, Mrs& Paul Stone is treasurer
and Mrs& Albert Quell is in charge of admittance for the dancing
at 9 P& M&.   Besides the bundle centers where contributions
may be made there will be facilities at Philmont Country Club
for those who would like to bring the bundles on the night of the party.
   The women's committee of St& David's Church will hold
its annual pre-Fair pink parade, a dessert bridge and fashion show at
1 P& M& on Monday, April 17, in the chapel assembly room, Wayne.
   Mrs& Robert O& Spurdle is chairman of the committee,
which includes Mrs& James A& Moody, Mrs& Frank C& Wilkinson,
Mrs& Ethel Coles, Mrs& Harold G& Lacy, Mrs&
Albert W& Terry, Mrs& Henry M& Chance, 2d, Mrs& Robert
O& Spurdle, Jr&, Mrs& Harcourt N& Trimble, Jr&, Mrs&
John A& Moller, Mrs& Robert Zeising, Mrs& William
G& Kilhour, Mrs& Hughes Cauffman, Mrs& John L& Baringer
and Mrs& Clyde Newman.   The fashion show, by Natalie
Collett will have Mrs& John Newbold as commentator. Models will
be Mrs& Samuel B& D& Baird, Mrs& William H& Meyle,
Jr&, Mrs& Richard W& Hole, Mrs& William F& Harrity,
Mrs& Robert O& Spurdle, Mrs& E& H& Kloman, Mrs&
Robert W& Wolcott, Jr&,
Mrs& Frederick C& Wheeler, Jr&,
Mrs& William ~A Boyd, ~Mrs F& Vernon Putt.
   Col& Clifton Lisle, of Chester Springs, who headed the Troop
Committee for much of its second and third decades, is now an honorary
member. Each year he invites the boys to camp out on his estate
for one of their big week ends of the year.   The Troop is proud
of its camping-out program- on year-round schedule and was continued
even when sub-zero temperatures were registered during the past
winter.   "We worry", say the mothers. "But there never is
any need. The boys love it".   Mrs& John Charles Cotty
is chairman of publicity for the country fair and Mrs& Francis G&
Felske and Mrs& Francis Smythe, of posters. They all are of
Wayne.
   "Meet the Artist" is the invitation issued by members of
the Greater Philadelphia Section of the National Council of Jewish
Women as they arrange for an annual exhibit and sale of paintings
and sculpture at the Philmont Country Club on April 8 and 9.
   A preview party for sponsors of the event and for the artists is set
for April 8. The event will be open to the public the following day.
Proceeds will be used by the section to further its program in science,
education and social action on local, national and international
levels. #NOTED ARTIST# Mrs& Monte Tyson, chairman, says the
work of 100 artists well known in the Delaware Valley area will be
included in the exhibition and sale. Among them will be Marc Shoettle,
Ben Shahn, Nicholas Marsicano, Alfred Van Loen and Milton
Avery. Mr& Shoettle has agreed to do a portrait of the family of
the person who wins the door prize.   The event is the sixth on
the annual calendar of the local members of the National Council of
Jewish Women. It originated with the Wissahickon Section. When this
and other units combined to form the present group, it was taken on
as a continuing fund-raiser. #OTHERS ASSISTING# Mrs& Jerome
Blum and Mrs& Meyer Schultz are co-chairmen this year. Assisting
as chairmen of various committees are Mrs& Alvin Blum, Mrs&
Leonard Malmud, Mrs& Edward Fernberger, Mrs& Robert Cushman.
   Also Mrs& Berton Korman, Mrs& Morton Rosen, Mrs& Jacques
Zinman, Mrs& Evelyn Rosen, Mrs& Henry Schultz, Mr& and
Mrs& I& S& Kamens, Mrs& Jack Langsdorf, Mrs& Leonard
Liss, Mrs& Gordon Blumberg, Mrs& Oscar Bregman, Mrs&
Alfred Kershbaum and Mrs& Edward Sabol.
   Dr& and Mrs& N& Volney Ludwick have had as guests Mr&
and Mrs& John J& Evans, Jr&, of "Kimbolton House",
Rockhall, Md&.   Mrs& Edward App will entertain the
members of her Book Club on Tuesday.   Mrs& A& Voorhees
Anderson entertained at a luncheon at her home, on Monday. Mr& and
Mrs& Anderson were entertained at dinner on Sunday by Mr& and
Mrs& Frank Coulson, of Fairless Hills.   Mr& and Mrs&
Major Morris and their son-in-law and daughter, Mr& and Mrs&
Thomas Glennon, and their children will spend several days in Brigantine,
N& J&.   Mr& and Mrs& James Janssen announce
the birth of a daughter, Patricia Lynn Janssen, on March 2.
   Mr& and Mrs& Charles Marella announce the engagement of
their daughter, Miss Mary Ann Marella, to Mr& Robert L& Orcutt,
son of Mr& and Mrs& Donald R& Orcutt, of Drexel Hill.
   Miss Eileen Grant is spending several weeks visiting in Florida.
   Mr& and Mrs& Frederick Heinze are entertaining Mr& Walter
Lehner, of Vienna; Mr& Ingo Dussa, of Dusseldorf, Germany,
and Mr& Bietnar Haaek, of Brelin.   Mr& and Mrs&
Harry D& Hoaps, Jr& have returned to their home in Drexel
Park, after spending some time in Delray Beach Fla&.   Mr&
and Mrs& James F& Mitchell, with their daughter, Anne, and
son, James, Jr& are spending several weeks in Florida, and will
visit in Clearwater.   Cmdr& Warren Taylor, USN&, and
Mrs& Taylor, of E& Greenwich, R& I&, will have with them
for the Easter holidays the latter's parents, Mr& and Mrs& John
B& Walbridge, of Drexel Hill.   Mr& and Mrs& L&
DeForest Emmert, formerly of Drexel Hill, and now of Newtown
Square, are entertaining Mr& and Mrs& Ashman E& Emmert, of
Temple, Pa&.   Mrs& William H& Merner, of Drexel Park,
entertained at a luncheon at her home on Wednesday.   Mr&
and Mrs& Robert Brown will return next week from Bermuda.
   Mrs& H& E& Godwin will entertain the members of her Book
Club at her home on Tuesday.
DR& AND MRS& Richard Peter Vieth announce the engagement
of their daughter, Miss Susan Ann Vieth, to Mr& Conrad Wall /3,,
son of Dr& Conrad Wall /2,, and Mrs& Nell Kennedy Wall.
The marriage will be quietly celebrated in early February.
   Miss Vieth was graduated from the Louise S& McGehee school
and is attending Wellesley college in Wellesley, Mass&. Her mother
is the former Miss Stella Hayward.   Mr& Wall is a student
at Tulane university, where he is a member of Delta Kappa Epsilon
fraternity. @   Their Majesties, The Queen of Carnival
and The Queen of Comus, have jointly issued invitations for Shrove
Tuesday evening at midnight at which time they will entertain in the
grand ballroom of a downtown hotel following the balls of Rex and
Comus. @   Mr& and Mrs& Richard B& McConnell and their
son-in-law and daughter, Mr& and Mrs& Raymond B& Walker
will be hosts this Tuesday evening at dinner at the State st& home
of the Walkers honoring Mrs& McConnell's debutante niece, Miss
Barbara Williams. @   Debutante Miss Lady Helen Hardy
will be feted at luncheon this Tuesday at which the hostess will
be Mrs& Edwin Socola of Waveland, Miss&. She will entertain
at a Vieux Carre restaurant at 1 o'clock in the early afternoon. @
   Another debutante, Miss Virginia Richmond, will also be
the honoree this Wednesday at luncheon at which Mrs& John Dane,
will be hostess entertaining at a downtown hotel. @ Miss Katherine
Vickery, who attends Sweet Briar college in Virginia, will rejoin
her father, Dr& Eugene Vickery, at the family home in Richmond
pl& Wednesday for part of the Carnival festivities. @   When
the Achaeans entertained Wednesday last at their annual Carnival
masquerade ball, Miss Margaret Pierson was chosen to rule over the
festivities, presented at the Muncipal Auditorium and chosen as her
ladies in waiting were Misses Clayton Nairne, Eleanor Eustis, Lynn
Chapman, Irwin Leatherman of Robinsonville, Miss& and Helene
Rowley. The large municipal hall was ablaze with color, which shown
out from the bright array of chic ballgowns worn by those participating
in the "maskers' dances".   The mother of young queen,
Mrs& G& Henry Pierson Jr& chose a white brocade gown made
on slim lines with panels of tomato-red and bright green satin extending
down the back. Mrs& Thomas Jordan selected a black taffeta frock
made with a skirt of fringed tiers and worn with crimson silk slippers.
Mrs& Clayton Nairne, whose daughter, was among the court maids,
chose a deep greenish blue lace gown. Mrs& Fenwick Eustis, whose
daughter was also a maid to the queen, wore an ashes of roses slipper
satin gown. Mrs& Peter Feringa Jr&, last year's Achaeans'
queen, chose an eggshell white filmy lace short dress made with
a wide decolletage trimmed with an edging of tulle. Mrs& Eustis Reily's
olive-green
street length silk taffeta dress was embroidered on
the bodice with gold threads and golden sequins and beads.
   The Baltimore and Ohio Railroad announced yesterday it would
reduce the total amount of its payroll by 10 per cent through salary
cuts and lay-offs effective at 12.01 A&M& next Saturday. The
current monthly payroll comes to about $15,000,000.   Howard E&
Simpson, the railroad's president, said, "A drastic decline in
freight loading due principally to the severe slump in the movement
of heavy goods has necessitated this regrettable action".   The
reduction in expenses will affect employees in the thirteen states in
which the B& + O& operates. #SALARY CUT AND LAY-OFFS# It
will be accomplished in two ways: _1._ A flat reduction of 10 per
cent in the salary of all officers, supervisors and other employees
not belonging to unions. There are about 3,325 officers and employees
in this class. _2._ Sufficient lay-offs of union employees to
bring about a 10 per cent cut in the union payroll expense.   Since
the railroad cannot reduce the salary of individual union members
under contract, it must accomplish its payroll reduction by placing some
of the men on furlough, a B&+O& spokesman said.   Those
union members kept on their jobs, therefore, will not take a cut in their
wages.   The spokesman said the number to be furloughed cannot
be estimated since the lay-offs must be carried out in each area depending
on what men are most needed on the job.
   A thug struck a cab driver in the face with a pistol last night
after robbing him of $18 at Franklin and Mount streets.   The
victim, Norman B& Wiley, 38, of the 900 block North Charles street,
was treated for cuts at Franklin Square Hospital after the robbery.
   The driver told police he followed as the Negro man got
out of the cab with his money. The victim was beaten when he attempted
to stop the bandit.   He said the assailant, who was armed
with a .45-caliber automatic, entered the taxi at Pennsylvania avenue
and Gold street.   In another attack, Samuel Verstandig, 41,
proprietor of a food store in the 2100 block Aiken street, told police
two Negroes assaulted him in his store and stole $150 from the cash
register after choking and beating him.
   A baby was burned to death and two other children were seriously
injured last night in a fire which damaged their one-room Anne Arundel
county home.   The victim Darnell Somerville, Negro, 1,
was pronounced dead on arrival at Anne Arundel General Hospital
in Annapolis.   His sister and brother, Marie Louise, 3, and
John Raymond, Jr& 22 months, were admitted to the hospital. The
girl was in critical condition with burns over 90 per cent of her body.
#BOY IN FAIR CONDITION# The boy received second-degree burns of
the face, neck and back. His condition was reported to be fair.
   Police said the children's mother, Mrs& Eleanor Somerville,
was visiting next door when the fire occurred.   The house is
on Old Annapolis road a mile south of Severna Park, at Jones Station,
police said.
_ANNAPOLIS, JAN& 7_- The Anne Arundel county school superintendent
has asked that the Board of Education return to the practice
of recording its proceedings mechanically so that there will be no more
question about who said what.   The proposal was made by Dr&
David S& Jenkins after he and Mrs& D& Ellwood Williams,
Jr&,
a board member and long-time critic of the superintendent, argued
for about fifteen minutes at this week's meeting.   The disagreement
was over what Dr& Jenkins had said at a previous session
and how his remarks appeared in the minutes presented at the following
meeting. #CITES DISCREPANCIES# Mrs& Williams had a list which
she said contained about nine or ten discrepancies between her memory
of Dr& Jenkins's conversation and how they were written up for
the board's approval.   "I hate to have these things come
up again and again", Dr& Jenkins commented as he made his suggestion.
"These are the board's minutes. I'll write what you tell
me to".   For a number of years the board used a machine to
keep a permanent record but abandoned the practice about two years ago.
   It was about that time, a board member said later, that Dr&
Thomas G& Pullen, Jr&,
State superintendent of schools, told
Dr& Jenkins and a number of other education officials that he would
not talk to them with a recording machine sitting in front of him.
   The Board of County Commissioners, the Sanitary Commission,
the Planning and Zoning Board and other county official bodies
use recording machines for all public business in order to prevent law
suits and other misunderstandings about what actually happened at their
meetings.   Dr& Jenkins notes, however, that most of the
school boards in the State do not do so.
   State Senator Joseph A& Bertorelli (D&, First Baltimore)
had a stroke yesterday while in his automobile in the 200 block
of West Pratt street.   He was taken to University Hospital
in a municipal ambulance.   Doctors at the hospital said he was
partially paralyzed on the right side. His condition was said to be,
"fair".   Police said he became ill while parked in front of
a barber shop at 229 West Pratt street. #BARBER SUMMONED# He called
Vincent L& Piraro, proprietor of the shop, who summoned police
and an ambulance.
   The vice president of the City Council complained yesterday
that there are "deficiencies" in the city's snow clearing program
which should be corrected as soon as possible.   Councilman William
D& Schaefer (D&, Fifth) said in a letter to Mayor Grady
that plowing and salting crews should be dispatched earlier in storms
and should be kept on the job longer than they were last month. #WERNER
CRITICIZED# Conceding that several cities to the north were
in worse shape than Baltimore after the last storm, Mr& Schaefer
listed several improvements he said should be made in the snow plan here.
   He said the snow plan was put in effect too slowly in December.
Equipment should be in operation "almost immediately after the
first snowfall", Mr& Schaefer said.   The Councilman,
who is the Administration floor leader, also criticized Bernard L&
Werner, public works director, for "halting snow operations" on
Tuesday night after the Sunday storm. #SENT HOME FOR REST# Mr&
Werner said yesterday that operations continued through the week.
What he did, Mr& Werner said, was let manual laborers go home Tuesday
night for some rest. Work resumed Wednesday, he said.
Mr& Schaefer also recommended that the snow emergency route plan,
under which parking is banned on key streets and cars are required to
use snow tires or chains on them, should be "strictly enforced".
   Admitting that main streets and the central business district
should have priority, the Councilman said it is also essential that
small shopping areas "not be overlooked **h if our small merchants are
to survive".   Recounting personal observations of clearance
work, the Councilman cited instances of inefficient use of equipment
or supplies by poorly trained workers and urged that plow blades be
set so they do not leave behind a thin layer of snow which eventually
freezes.
_ANNAPOLIS, JAN& 7 (SPECIAL)_- The 15-year-old adopted son of
a Washington attorney and his wife, who were murdered early today in
their Chesapeake Bay-front home, has been sent to Spring Grove State
Hospital for detention.   The victims were H& Malone Dresbach,
47, and his wife, Shirley, 46. Each had been shot in the back
several times with a .22-caliber automatic rifle, according to Capt&
Elmer Hagner, chief of Anne Arundel detectives.   Judge
Benjamin Michaelson signed the order remanding the boy to the hospital
because of the lack of juvenile accommodations at the Anne Arundel
County Jail. The Circuit Court jurist said the boy will have
a hearing in Juvenile Court.   #YOUNGER SON CALLS POLICE#
Soon after 10 A&M&, when police reached the 1-1/2-story brick
home
in the Franklin Manor section, 15 miles south of here on the bay, in
response to a call from the Dresbach's other son, Lee, 14, they
found Mrs& Dresbach's body on the first-floor bedroom floor. Her
husband was lying on the kitchen floor, police said.   The younger
son told police his brother had run from the house after the shootings
and had driven away in their mother's car.   The description
of the car was immediately broadcast throughout Southern Maryland
on police radio. #TWO BROTHERS ADOPTED# Police said the boys
are natural brothers and were adopted as small children by the Dresbachs.
   Trooper J& A& Grzesiak spotted the wanted car,
with
three boys, at a Route 2 service station, just outside Annapolis. The
driver admitted he was the Dresbachs' son and all three were taken
to the Edgewater Station, police said.
_ANNAPOLIS, JAN& 7_- Governor Tawes today appointed Lloyd L&
Simpkins, his administrative assistant, as Maryland's Secretary
of State.   Mr& Simpkins will move into the post being vacated
by Thomas B& Finan, earlier named attorney general to succeed
C& Ferdinand Sybert, who will be elevated to an associate judgeship
on the Maryland Court of Appeals.   Governor Tawes announced
that a triple swearing-in ceremony will be held in his office
next Friday. #SIMPKINS FROM SOMERSET# Mr& Simpkins is a resident
of Somerset county, and he and the Governor, also a Somerset countian,
have been friends since Mr& Simpkins was a child.   Now
38, Mr& Simpkins was graduated from the University of Maryland's
College of Agriculture in 1947.   Five years later, he
was awarded the university's degree in law.   Mr& Simpkins
made a name for himself as a member of the House of Delegates from
1951 through 1958. From the outset of his first term, he established
himself as one of the guiding spirits of the House of Delegates.
   MARYLAND contracts for future construction during October
totaled $77,389,000, up to 10 per cent compared to October, 1960, F&
W& Dodge, Dodge Corporation, reported.   Dodge reported
the following breakdown:   Nonresidential at $20,447,000, down
28 per cent; residential at $47,101,000, up 100 per cent; and
heavy engineering at $9,841,000, down 45 per cent.   The cumulative
total of construction contracts for the first ten months of 1961 amounted
to $634,517,000, a 4 per cent increase compared to the corresponding
period of last year.   A breakdown of the ten-month total
showed:   Nonresidential at $253,355,000, up 22 per cent; residential
at $278,877,000, up 12 per cent; and heavy engineering at
$102,285,000, down 33 per cent.   Residential building consists
of houses, apartments, hotels, dormitories and other buildings designed
for shelter.
   The share of the new housing market enjoyed by apartments, which
began about six years ago, has more than tripled within that span of
time.   In 1961, it is estimated that multiple unit dwellings
will account for nearly 30 per cent of the starts in residential construction.
   While availability of mortgage money has been a factor
in encouraging apartment construction, the generally high level of
prosperity in the past few years plus rising consumer income are among
the factors that have encouraged builders to concentrate in the
apartment-building
field.   Although economic and personal circumstances
vary widely among those now choosing apartments, Leo J& Pantas,
vice president of a hardware manufacturing company, pointed out recently
that many apartment seekers seem to have one characteristic in common:
a desire for greater convenience and freedom from the problems
involved in maintaining a house. #CONVENIENCE HELD KEY# "Convenience
is therefore the key to the housing market today. Trouble-free,
long-life, quality components will play an increasingly important
part in the merchandising of new housing in 1960", Pantas
predicted.
   SIXTY-SEVEN living units are being added to the 165-unit
Harbor View Apartments in the Cherry Hill section.   Ultimately
the development will comprise 300 units, in two-story and three-story
structures. Various of the apartments are of the terrace type, being
on the ground floor so that entrance is direct. Others, which are
reached by walking up a single flight of stairs, have balconies.
   The structures housing the apartments are of masonry and frame construction.
Heating is by individual gas-fired, forced warm air systems.
   CONSTRUCTION in 1962 will account for about 15 per cent of
the gross national product, according to a study by Johns-Manville
Corporation.
_LONDON, FEB& 9_- Vital secrets of Britain's first atomic
submarine, the Dreadnought, and, by implication, of the entire United
States navy's still-building nuclear sub fleet, were stolen by a
London-based soviet spy ring, secret service agents testified today.
   The Dreadnought was built on designs supplied by the United
States in 1959 and was launched last year. It is a killer sub- that
is, a hunter of enemy subs. It has a hull patterned on that of the
United States navy's Nautilus, the world's first atomic submarine.
Its power unit, however, was derived from the reactor of the more
modern American nuclear submarine Skipjack. #FIVE HELD FOR TRIAL#
The announcement that the secrets of the Dreadnought had been stolen
was made in Bow st& police court here at the end of a three day
hearing. A full trial was ordered for:   Two British civil
servants, Miss Ethel Gee, 46, and her newly devoted friend, Harry
Houghton, 55, and divorced. They are accused of whisking secrets out
of naval strongrooms over which they kept guard.   Gordon A&
Lonsdale, 37, a mystery man presumed to be Russian altho he carries
a Canadian passport. When arrested, he had the submarine secrets
on a roll of candid camera film as well as anti-submarine secrets in
Christmas gift wrapping, it was testified. #FLASHED TO MOSCOW# A
shadowy couple who call themselves Peter Kroger, bookseller, and wife,
Joyce.   [<In Washington, the Federal Bureau of Investigation
identified the Krogers as Morris and Lola Cohen, an American
couple formerly of New York City>.]   In their suburban
cottage the crown charges, the Krogers received secrets from the mystery
man, usually on the first Saturday evening of each month, and
spent much of the week-end getting the secrets off to Moscow, either
on a powerful transmitter buried under the kitchen floor or as dots posted
over period marks in used books. Each dot on magnification resumed
its original condition as a drawing, a printed page, or a manuscript.
   All five pleaded innocent. Only Miss Gee asked for bail.
Her young British lawyer, James Dunlop, pleaded that she was sorely
needed at her Portland home by her widowed mother, 80, her maiden
aunt, also 80 and bedridden for 20 years, and her uncle, 76, who once
ran a candy shop. #REFUSES TO GRANT BAIL# "I am not prepared to
grant bail to any of them", said the magistrate, K&J&P& Baraclough.
   The trial will be held, probably the first week of
March, in the famous Old Bailey central criminal court where Klaus
Fuchs, the naturalized British German born scientist who succeeded
in giving American and British atomic bomb secrets to Russia and
thereby changed world history during the 1950s, was sentenced to 14 years
in prison.   Fourteen years is the maximum penalty now faced
by the new five, who may have altered history in the 1960s. Fuchs,
after nine and a half years, was released, being given time off for good
behavior. He promptly went to communist East Germany.   The
magistrate tonight refused to return to the five $29,000 in American
and British currency, mostly $20 bills, and in British government
bonds and stocks.   "This is Russian money", said Mervin Griffith-Jones
for the attorney general's office. He asserted that
the Krogers were the bankers for Moscow, Lonsdale the Red paymaster,
and the two civil servants the recipients for selling their country's
secrets. #"OF HIGHEST VALUE"# The fact that secrets of
the Dreadnought, and thereby of the American undersea fleet, were involved
in the spy case had been hinted at earlier.   But just before
luncheon today the fact was announced grimly by the British navy's
chief adviser to the cabinet on underwater warfare, Capt& George
Symonds. He said that drawings of the Dreadnought and printed
details about the ship were found reproduced in an undeveloped roll of
film taken from Lonsdale when he was arrested with the two civil servants
outside the Old Vic theater Saturday afternoon, Jan& 7.
   The information, he said, would have been of the highest value to
a potential enemy. #COURT CLEARED# Just how many sub secrets were
being handed over when the ring, watched for six months, was broken
remained untold.   The British defending lawyers, who today increased
from three to four, demanded to know if they could make the information
involved seem of little value to a jury, the chances of their
clients would improve. So in the name of justice the magistrate cleared
the court of all except officials to allow the captain to elaborate
for almost an hour.   Almost any information about the Dreadnought
would also reveal secrets about the American underwater fleet.
Britain began designing the ship in 1956 but got nowhere until the American
government decided to end a ban on sharing military secrets with
Britain that had been imposed after Fuchs blabbed. The United
States offered to supply a complete set of propelling equipment like
that used in the Skipjack.   With the machinery went a complete
design for the hull.   The Skipjack was a second generation
atomic sub, much advanced on the Nautilus and the other four which preceded
it. #NAVY'S FUTURE INVOLVED# "Much of the navy's future
depends upon her", an American naval announcement said on the
Skipjack's first arrival in British waters in August, 1959, for exhibition
to selected high officers at Portland underwater research station.
It was there that the two accused civil servants were at work.
   "Her basic hull form [a teardrop] and her nuclear power
plant will be used for almost all new submarines, including the potent
Polaris missile submarines", the statement went on.   The atom
reactor, water cooled, was the result of almost a decade of research
at the naval reactors branch of the atomic energy commission and Westinghouse
Electric Corp&. Thru development, the reactor and its
steam turbines had been reduced greatly in size, and also in complexity,
allowing a single propeller to be used, the navy said.   The
hull was also a result of almost a decade of work. It was first tried
out on a conventional submarine, the Albacore, in 1954.   The
Skipjack became the fastest submarine ever built. Reputedly it could
outrun, underwater, the fastest destroyers. It could, reputedly, go
70,000 miles without refueling and stay down more than a month.
It was of the hunter-killer type, designed to seek out ships and other
submarines with its most advance gear and destroy them with torpedoes.
   The navy captain disclosed also that a list of questions found
in Miss Gee's purse would, if completed and handed back, have
given the Kremlin a complete picture "of our current anti-submarine
effort and would have shown what we are doing in research and development
for the future". #INTERESTED IN DETECTOR# The spy ring also
was particularly interested in ~ASDIC, the underwater equipment
for detecting submarines, it was testified. Range was a vital detail.
Designs of parts were sought.   Six radiomen told how, twice
on two days after the ring was nabbed, a transmitter near Moscow was
heard calling, using signals, times and wavelengths specified on codes
found hidden in cigaret lighters in Lonsdale's apartment and the
Krogers' house and also fastened to the transmitter lid. Oddly,
the calls were still heard 11 days after the five were arrested.
   The charge that the federal indictment of three Chicago narcotics
detail detectives "is the product of rumor, combined with malice,
and individual enmity" on the part of the federal narcotics unit here
was made yesterday in their conspiracy trial before Judge Joseph
Sam Perry in federal District court.   The three- Miles J&
Cooperman, Sheldon Teller, and Richard Austin- and eight other
defendants are charged in six indictments with conspiracy to violate
federal narcotic laws.   In his opening statement to a jury
of eight women and four men, Bernard H& Sokol, attorney for the detectives,
said that evidence would show that his clients were "entirely
innocent". #'HAD TO KNOW PEDDLERS'# "When they became
members of the city police narcotics unit", Sokol said, "they were
told they would have to get to know certain areas of Chicago in which
narcotics were sold and they would have to get to know people in
the narcotics racket. They, on occasion, posed as addicts and peddlers".
   Altho federal and city narcotic agents sometimes worked
together, Sokol continued,
rivalries developed when they were "aiming
at the same criminals". This, he added, brought about "petty jealousies"
and "petty personal grievances".   "In the same
five year period that the United States says they [the detectives]
were engaged in this conspiracy", Sokol continued, "these three
young men received a total of 26 creditable mentions and many special
compensations, and were nominated for the Lambert Tree award and the
mayor's medal". #NO COMMENTS BY U&S&# In opening, D&
Arthur Connelly, assistant United States attorney, read the indictment,
but made no comments. Attorneys for the eight other defendants
said only that there was no proof of their clients' guilt.
Cooperman and Teller are accused of selling $4,700 worth of heroin
to a convicted narcotics peddler, Otis Sears, 45, of 6934 Indiana av&.
Among other acts, Teller and Austin are accused of paying $800
to Sears.   The first witness, Moses Winston Mardis, 5835
Michigan av&, a real estate agent and former bail bondsman, took the
stand after opening statements had been made. But court adjourned after
he testified he introduced James White and Jeremiah Hope Pullings,
two of the defendants, and also introduced Pullings to Jessy
Maroy, a man mentioned in the indictment but not indicted.
   Buaford Robinson, 23, of 7026 Stewart av&, a ~CTA bus
driver, was slugged and robbed last night by a group of youths at 51st
street and South Park way. Robinson was treated at a physician's
office for a cut over his left eyebrow and a possible sprained knee.
His losses included his money bag, containing $40 to $50 and his $214
paycheck.   Robinson told Policemen James Jones and Morgan
Lloyd of the Wabash avenue district that 10 youths boarded his south
bound express bus in front of Dunbar Vocational High school, 30th
street and South Park way, and began "skylarking".   When
51st street was reached, Robinson related, he stopped the bus and told
the youths he was going to call the ~CTA supervisor. As he left
the bus with his money bag, Robinson added, the largest youth accosted
him, a quarrel ensued, and the youth knocked him down. Then the
youths fled with his money.
   Mrs& Blanche Dunkel, 60, who has spent 25 years in the Dwight
reformatory for women for the murder in 1935 of her son-in-law, Ervin
Lang, then 28, appealed for a parole at a hearing yesterday before
two Illinois pardon and parole board members, John M& Bookwalter
and Joseph Carpentier. She had been sentenced to 180 years in
prison, but former Gov& Stratton commuted her term to 75 years, making
her eligible for parole, as one of his last acts in office.
   Mrs& Dunkel admitted the slaying and said that the son-in-law became
her lover after the death of her daughter in 1934. It was when he
attempted to end the relationship that the murder took place.
   The son of a wealthy Evanston executive was fined $100 yesterday
and forbidden to drive for 60 days for leading an Evanston policeman
on a high speed chase over icy Evanston and Wilmette streets Jan&
20.   The defendant, William L& Stickney /3, 23, of
3211 Park pl&, Evanston, who pleaded guilty to reckless driving, also
was ordered by Judge James Corcoran to attend the Evanston traffic
school each Tuesday night for one month.   Stickney is a salesman
for Plee-Zing, Inc&, 2544 Green Bay rd&, Evanston, a
food brokerage and grocery chain firm, of which his father, William L&
Jr&, is president.   Patrolman James F& Simms said
he started in pursuit when he saw young Stickney speeding north in Stewart
avenue at Central street.   At Jenks street, Simms said,
the car skidded completely around, just missed two parked cars, and
sped east in Jenks.   The car spun around again, Simms said,
before Stickney could turn north in Prairie avenue, and then violated
two stop lights as he traveled north into Wilmette in Prairie.
_ST& JOHNS, MICH&, APRIL 19._- A jury of seven men and five
women found 21-year-old Richard Pohl guilty of manslaughter yesterday
in the bludgeon slaying of Mrs& Anna Hengesbach.   Pohl
received the verdict without visible emotion. He returned to his cell
in the county jail, where he has been held since his arrest last July,
without a word to his court-appointed attorney, Jack Walker, or his
guard. #STEPSON VINDICATED# The verdict brought vindication to
the dead woman's stepson, Vincent Hengesbach, 54, who was tried
for the same crime in December, 1958, and released when the jury failed
to reach a verdict. Mrs& Hengesbach was killed on Aug& 31, 1958.
   Hengesbach has been living under a cloud ever since. When
the verdict came in against his young neighbor, Hengesbach said:
   "I am very pleased to have the doubt of suspicion removed. Still,
I don't wish to appear happy at somebody's else's misfortune".
#LIVES ON WELFARE# Hengesbach, who has been living on welfare
recently, said he hopes to rebuild the farm which was settled by
his grandfather in Westphalia, 27 miles southwest of here.   Hengesbach
has been living in Grand Ledge since his house and barn were
burned down after his release in 1958.   Pohl confessed the
arson while being questioned about several fires in the Westphalia area
by State Police.   He also admitted killing Mrs& Hengesbach.
However, the confession, which was the only evidence against him,
was retracted before the trial. #CHARGES IN DOUBT# Assistant Prosecutor
Fred Lewis, who tried both the Hengesbach and Pohl cases,
said he did not know what would be done about two arson charges pending
against Pohl.   Circuit Judge Paul R& Cash did not set
a date for sentencing. Pohl could receive from 1 to 15 years in prison
or probation.   Walker said he was considering filing a motion
for a new trial which would contend that the verdict was against the
weight of the evidence and that there were several errors in trial
procedure. #LOCKED IN MOTEL# A verdict against Pohl came at 4:05
p&m& after almost 13-1/2 hours of deliberation. The jury, which
was locked up in a motel overnight, was canvassed at the request of
Walker after the verdict was announced.   The jury foreman, Mrs&
Olive Heideman, of rural Elsie, said that a ballot was not even
taken until yesterday morning and that the first day of deliberation
was spent in going over the evidence.   She said the jurors agreed
that Pohl's confession was valid.   The jury asked Judge
Cash to send in his written definition of the difference between first
and second-degree murder and manslaughter.   The verdict came
three hours later.   Some 30 spectators remained in the court during
the day and were on hand to hear the verdict read. The trial had
packed the large courtroom for more than a week.
   A Sterling Township family of six surviving children, whose
mother died yesterday as the aftermath to a fire that also killed one
of the children, found today they had the help of hundreds of neighbors
and school friends.   While neighbor women assumed some of the
dead mother's duties, fund-raising events were being planned by a homeowners
association and a student council for the hard-hit Henry Kowalski
family, 34220 Viceroy.   Mrs& Eleanor Kowalski, 42,
died yesterday afternoon in Holy Cross Hospital of burns suffered
in a fire that followed a bottled gas explosion Saturday night at the
flat of her widowed mother, Mrs& Mary Pankowski, in the adjoining
suburb of Warren. #SERVICES TOMORROW# Funeral services for Mrs&
Kowalski and her daughter, Christine, 11, who died of burns at
the same hospital Monday, have been scheduled for 10 a&m& tomorrow
in St& Anne's Catholic Church, 31978 Mound, in Warren.
   The
mother and daughter, who will be buried side by side in Mt& Olivet
Cemetery, rested together today in closed caskets at the Lyle Elliott
Funeral Home, 31730 Mound, Warren.   Mrs& Pankowski,
61, remained in Holy Cross Hospital as a result of the explosion,
which occurred while Mrs& Kowalski fueled a cook stove in the grandmother's
small upstairs flat at 2274 Eight Mile road east. #HELD
CANDLE# Assistant Fire Chief Chester Cornell said gas fumes
apparently were ignited by a candle which one of the three Kowalski
girls present held for her mother, because the flat lacked electricity.
   Christine's twin sister, Patricia, and Darlene Kowalski,
8, escaped with minor burns. They are home now with the other Kowalski
children, Vicky, 14; Dennis, 6; Eleanor, 2; and Bernardine,
1.   "All we have left in the world is one another, and we
must stay together the way Mother wanted", Kowalski said in telling
his children of their mother's death yesterday afternoon.
Kowalski, a roofer who seldom worked last winter, already was in arrears
on their recently purchased split-level home when the tragedy staggered
him with medical and funeral bills. #$135 DONATED# Neighbor
women, such as Mrs& Sidney Baker, 2269 Serra, Sterling Township,
have been supplying the family with meals and handling household chores
with Kowalski's sister-in-law, Mrs& Anna Kowalski, 22111
David, East Detroit.   Another neighbor, Mrs& Frank C&
Smith, 2731 Pall Mall, Sterling Township, surprised Kowalski by
coming to the home yesterday with $135 collected locally toward the
$400 funeral costs.   John C& Houghton, president of the Tareytown
Acres Homeowners Association, followed that by announcing plans
last night for a door-to-door fund drive throughout their subdivision
on behalf of the Kowalski family. #STUDENTS HELP OUT# Houghton
said 6 p&m& Friday had been set for a canvass of all 480 homes
in the subdivision, which is located northeast of Dequindre and 14
Mile road east. He said contributions also could be mailed to Post
Office Box 553, Warren Village Station.   Vicky Kowalski
meanwhile learned that several of her fellow students had collected almost
$25 for her family during the lunch hour yesterday at Fuhrmann Junior
High School, 5155 Fourteen Mile road east.   Principal
Clayton W& Pohly said he would allow a further collection between
classes today, and revealed that ~Y-Teen Club past surpluses had
been used to provide a private hospital nurse Monday for Mrs& Kowalski.
#FUNDS FROM DANCES# Student Council officers announced
today the Kowalski family would be given the combined proceeds from
a school dance held two weeks ago, and another dance for Fuhrmann's
770 students this Friday night.   "Furhmann's faculty is proud
that this has been a spontaneous effort, started largely among the
students themselves, because of fondness for Vicky and sympathy for
her entire family, Pohly said.   There also were reports of a
collection at the County Line Elementary School, 3505o Dequindre,
which has been attended this year by four of the Kowalski children including
Christine. #EXPRESSES THANKS# Kowalski has spoken but
little since the fire last Saturday. But today he wanted to make a public
statement.   "I never knew there were such neighbors and
friends around me and my family. I wasn't sure there were such people
anywhere in the world. I'll need more than a single day to find
the words to properly express my thanks to them".
   An alert 10-year-old safety patrol boy was congratulated by police
today for his part in obtaining a reckless driving conviction against
a youthful motorist.   Patrolman George Kimmell, of McClellan
Station, said he would recommend a special safety citation for
Ralph Sisk, 9230 Vernor east, a third grader at the Scripps School,
for his assistance in the case.   Kimmell said he and Ralph
were helping children across Belvidere at Kercheval Monday afternoon
when a car heading north on Belvidere stopped belatedly inside the
pedestrian crosswalk. #GETS CAR NUMBER# Kimmell ordered the driver
to back up, watched the children safely across and was approaching
the car when it suddenly "took off at high speed", he said, narrowly
missing him.   Commandeering a passing car, Kimmell pursued
the fleeing vehicle, but lost it in traffic. Returning to the school
crossing, the officer was informed by the Sisk boy that he recognized
the driver, a neighbor, and had obtained the license number.   The
motorist later was identified as Richard Sarkees, 17, of 2433 McClellan,
currently on probation and under court order not to drive.
#GIVEN 15 DAYS# He was found guilty of reckless driving yesterday
by Traffic Judge George T& Murphy, who continued his no-driving
probation for another year and ordered him to spend 15 days in the Detroit
House of Correction. The jail sentence is to begin the day
after Sarkees graduates from Eastern High School in June.
   The long crisis in Laos appeared nearing a showdown today.
   Britain announced that it is asking the Soviet Union to agree
tomorrow to an immediate cease-fire. #HELP ASKED# In Vientiane,
the royal Laotian government decided today to ask its "friends and
neighbors" for help in fighting what it called a new rebel offensive
threatening the southeast Asian kingdom.   Britain's plans
to press Russia for a definite cease-fire timetable was announced in
London by Foreign Secretary Lord Home.   He said Britain also
proposed that the international truce commission should be reconvened,
sent to New Delhi and from there to Laos to verify the cease-fire.
   A 14-power conference on Laos should then meet on May 5,
he said. #PLEA FOR ARMS# The Laos government plea for help was
made by Foreign Minister Tiao Sopsaisana. He indicated that requests
would be made for more U&S& arms and more U&S& military
advisers.   He declared the government is thinking of asking
for foreign troops if the situation worsens.   One of the first
moves made after a cabinet decision was to request the United States
to establish a full-fledged military assistance group instead of the
current civilian body.   A note making the request was handed to
U&S& Ambassador Winthrop G& Brown. #HEAVY SUPPORT# The
Laos government said four major Pathet Lao rebel attacks had been
launched, heavily supported by troops from Communist North Viet Nam.
   The minister, describing the attacks which led up to the
appeal, said that 60,000 Communist North Vietnamese were fighting royal
army troops on one front- near Thakhek, in southern-central Laos.
   There was no confirmation of such massive assaults from independent
sources. In the past such government claims have been found
exaggerated.
_HAVANA, APRIL 19._- Two Americans and seven Cubans were executed
by firing squads today as Castro military tribunals began decreeing
the death penalty for captured invasion forces and suspected collaborators.
   A Havana radio broadcast identified the Americans
as Howard Anderson and August Jack McNair.   The executions
took place at dawn only a few hours after Havana radio announced their
conviction by a revolutionary tribunal at Pinar del Rio, where the
executions took place. #ARMS PLOT CHARGED# The broadcast said
Anderson, a Seattle ex-marine and Havana businessman, and McNair,
of Miami, were condemned on charges of smuggling arms to Cuban rebels.
   Anderson operated three Havana automobile service stations
and was commander of the Havana American Legion post before it disbanded
since the start of Fidel Castro's regime.   Anderson's
wife and four children live in Miami.   McNair, 25, was seized
March 20 with four Cubans and accused of trying to land a boatload
of rifles in Pinar del Rio, about 35 miles from Havana. #REPORT
OTHERS HELD# At least 20 other Americans were reported to have
been arrested in a mass political roundup.   Among them were a
number of newsmen, including Henry Raymont, of United Press International,
and Robert Berrellez, of Associated Press.   So many
Cubans were reported being swept into the Castro dragnet that the
massive Sports Palace auditorium and at least one hotel were converted
into makeshift jails. More than 1,000 were said to have been arrested-
100 of them Roman Catholic priests.
   Of the millions who have served time in concentration camps in
Siberia as political prisoners of the Soviet state, few emerge in the
West to tell about it.   M& Kegham- the name is a pseudynom-
was a teacher in Bucharest and a member of the Armenian Revolutionary
Federation (~ARF)- two reasons the Communists put
him
away when they arrived in 1945.   Today, M& Kegham was in Detroit,
en route to join his wife and children in California.
   Emory University's Board of Trustees announced Friday that
it was prepared to accept students of any race as soon as the state's
tax laws made such a step possible.   "Emory University's
charter and by-laws have never required admission or rejection of
students on the basis of race", board chairman Henry L& Bowden
stated.   But an official statement adopted by the 33-man Emory
board at its annual meeting Friday noted that state taxing requirements
at present are a roadblock to accepting Negroes.   The statement
explained that under the Georgia Constitution and state law,
tax-exempt status is granted to educational institutions only if they
are segregated.   "Emory could not continue to operate according
to its present standards as an institution of higher learning, of
true university grade, and meet its financial obligations, without the
tax-exemption privileges which are available to it only so long as it
conforms to the aforementioned constitutional and statutory provisions",
the statement said.   The statement did not mention what steps
might be taken to overcome the legal obstacles to desegregation.
   An Emory spokesman indicated, however, that the university itself
did not intend to make any test of the laws.   The Georgia
Constitution gives the Legislature the power to exempt colleges from
property taxation if, among other criteria, "all endowments to institutions
established for white people shall be limited to white people,
and all endowments to institutions established for colored people shall
be limited to colored people".   At least two private colleges
in the Atlanta area now or in the past have had integrated student
bodies, but their tax-exempt status never has been challenged by the
state.   Emory is affiliated with the Methodist Church. Some
church leaders, both clerical and lay, have criticized the university
for not taking the lead in desegregation.
#URGED IN 1954# The student
newspaper, The Emory Wheel, as early as the fall of 1954 called
for desegregation.   "From its beginning", the trustees'
statement said Friday, "Emory University has assumed as its primary
commitment a dedication to excellence in Christian higher learning.
Teaching, research and study, according to highest standards, under
Christian influence, are paramount in the Emory University policy.
   "As a private institution, supported by generous individuals,
Emory University will recognize no obligation and will adopt no
policy that would conflict with its purpose to promote excellence in
scholarship and Christian education.   "There is not now, nor
has there ever been in Emory University's charter or by-laws any
requirement that students be admitted or rejected on the basis of race,
color or creed. Insofar as its own governing documents are concerned,
Emory University could now consider applications from prospective
students, and others
seeking applications from prospective students,
and others seeking the opportunity to study or work at the university,
irrespective of race, color or creed. #CORPORATE EXISTENCE# "On
the other hand, Emory University derives its corporate existence from
the State of Georgia. **h   "When and if it can do so without
jeopardizing constitutional and statutory tax-exemption privileges
essential to the maintenance of its educational program and facilities,
Emory University will consider applications of persons desiring
to study or work at the University without regard to race, color or
creed, continuing university policy that all applications shall be considered
on the basis of intellectual and moral standards and other criteria
designed to assure the orderly and effective conduct of the university
and the fulfillment of its mission as an institution of Christian
higher education".
   A young man was killed and two others injured at midnight Friday
when the car they were riding slid into a utility pole on Lake Avenue
near Waddell Street, ~NE, police said.   The dead youth
was identified as Robert E& Sims, 19, of 1688 Oak Knoll Cir&,
~SE.   Patrolman G& E& Hammons said the car evidently
slid out of control on rain-slick streets and slammed into the
pole.   The other occupants were James Willard Olvey, 18, of
963 Ponce de Leon Ave&, ~NE, and Larry Coleman Barnett, 19,
of 704 Hill St&, ~SE, both of whom were treated at Grady Hospital
for severe lacerations and bruises.
   The Atlanta Negro student movement renewed its demands for movie
theater integration Friday and threatened picketing and "stand-ins"
if negotiations failed.   The demands were set forth in
letters to seven owners of first-run theaters by the Committee on Appeal
for Human Rights. #'INTEND TO ATTEND'# "We intend to
attend the downtown theaters before the first of the year", the identically
worded letters said.   The letters set a Nov& 15 deadline
for the start of negotiations. They indicated that stand-ins and
picketing would be started if theater owners failed to cooperate.
   Downtown and art theater managers and owners, contacted Friday
night for comment on the ~COAHR request, said they had no knowledge
of such a letter, and that it was not in the Friday mail. However,
three of the managers did say that they would agree to attend the
proposed meeting if all of the other managers decided to attend. #GATHER
HERE# The ~COAHR letter comes on the eve of a large gathering
of theater managers and owners scheduled to begin here Sunday.
Several theater operators said, however, that there is little likelihood
of the subject being discussed during the three-day affair.
   Student leaders began sporadic efforts to negotiate theater integration
several months ago. Charles A& Black, ~COAHR chairman,
said Friday that three theater representatives had agreed to meet
with the students on Oct& 31 but had failed to show up. He declined
to name the three.   Friday's letters asked for a Nov& 15
meeting. Failure to attend the meeting or explain inability to attend,
the letters said, would be considered a "sign of indifference".
   Black said ~COAHR "hoped to be able to integrate the
theaters without taking direct action, but we are pledged to using every
legal and nonviolent means at our disposal **h"   A
prepared
statement released by the student group Friday stated that "extensive
research by ~COAHR into techniques and methods of theater
integration in other cities indicated that the presence of picket lines
and stand-ins
before segregated theaters causes a drop in profits **h"
   Besides managers of downtown theaters, the students sent
letters to owners of art theaters in the uptown area and Buckhead.
#R& E& KILLINGSWORTH# Raymond E& Killingsworth, 72, died
Sunday at his home at 357 Venable St&, ~NW.   Mr& Kililngsworth
was a foreman with ~S and ~W Cafeteria. He was born
in Pittsboro, Miss&, and was a veteran of World War /1,. He
was a member of the Baptist church.   Survivors include two brothers,
C& E& Killingsworth, Atlanta, and John Killingsworth,
Warren, Ohio; and two sisters, Miss Minnie Kililngsworth and
Mrs& Bessie Bloom, both of Gettysburg, Pa&. #JOHN W& BALL#
John William Ball, 68, of 133 Marietta St& ~NW, Apartment
101~B, died Sunday at his home.   Mr& Ball was a house
painter. He was a member of the Oakland City Methodist Church
and a native of Atlanta.   Funeral services will be at 2 p&m&
Tuesday at Blanchard's Chapel with the Rev& J& H& Hearn
officiating.   Survivors include his sister, Mrs& Emma
B& Odom of Atlanta. #MRS& LOLA HARRIS# Mrs& Lola M&
Harris, a native of Atlanta, died Sunday at her home in Garland,
Tex&.   Survivors include a son, Charles R& Fergeson, Memphis,
Tenn&; two daughters, Mrs& Gene F& Stoll and Miss
Nancy Harris, both of Garland; her father, H& T& Simpson,
Greenville, S&C&, and three sisters, Mrs& W& E& Little
and Mrs& Hal B& Wansley, both of Atlanta, and Mrs& Bill
Wallace, Wilmington, N&C&.
   A 24-year-old Atlanta man was arrested Sunday after breaking
into the home of relatives in search of his wife, hitting his uncle with
a rock and assaulting two police officers who tried to subdue him,
police said.   Patrolmen J& W& Slate and A& L& Crawford
Jr& said they arrested Ronald M& Thomas, of 1671 Nakoma
St&, ~NW, after he assaulted the officers. #POLICE ACCOUNT#
The officers gave this account:   Thomas early Sunday went
to the home of his uncle and aunt, Mr& and Mrs& R& C& Thomas,
511 Blanche St&, ~NW, looking for his wife, Margaret Lou
Thomas, 18, and their 11-month-old baby.   The younger Thomas
ripped a screen door, breaking the latch, and after an argument struck
his uncle with a rock, scratching his face. He also struck his aunt
and wife, and during the melee the baby also suffered scratches.
   When police arrived the man was still violent, Slate said. #ATTACKS
OFFICER# He attacked one of the officers and was restrained.
About five minutes later he jumped up, Slate said, and struck the
two policemen again.   He was then subdued and placed in the police
car to be taken to Grady Hospital for treatment of scratches received
in the melee. Then he attacked the two officers again and was again
restrained, Slate related.   Slate said he and Crawford received
cuts and scratches and their uniforms were badly torn.
Thomas was charged with four counts of assault and battery. Two counts
of assault on an officer, resisting arrest, disturbance and cursing,
police said. A hearing was set for 8:30 a&m& Tuesday.
   Mrs& Mary Self, who knows more than any other person about
the 5,000 city employes for whom she has kept personnel records over
the years, has closed her desk and retired.   Over the weekend,
Mrs& Self, personnel clerk, was a feted and honored guest of the
Atlanta Club, organization of women employes at City Hall.
After 18 years in the personnel office, she has taken a disability pension
on advice of her doctors.   As personnel clerk, she handled
thousands of entries, ranging from appointments to jobs, to transfers
to other employments, to pensions.   "I have enjoyed it and
will feel a bit lost at least for a while", she said wistfully Friday.
   One of the largest crowds in the club's history turned out
to pay tribute to Mrs& Self and her service.
   Georgia's Department of Agriculture is intensifying its fire
ant eradication program in an effort to stay ahead of the fast-spreading
pest.   The department is planning to expand its eradication
program soon to four additional counties- Troup, Pierce, Bryan
and Bulloch- to treat 132,000 acres infested by the ants, according
to W& E& Blasingame state entomologist.   Low-flying planes
will spread a granular-type chemical, heptachlor, over 30,000 acres
in Troup, 37,000 acres in Pierce and 65,000 acres in Bulloch and
Bryan counties.
   The eradication effort is being pushed in Bibb
and Jones counties, over 37,679 acres. The department has just finished
treating 20,000 acres in urban areas of Macon.   Also being
treated are Houston, Bleckley, Tift, Turner and Dodge counties,
Blasingame said. The fire ant is thought to infest approximately
two million acres of land in Georgia, attacking crops, young wildlife
and livestock and can be a serious health menace to humans who are allergic
to its venom, Blasingame said.
   The north-bound entrance to the Expressway at 14th Street will
be closed during the afternoon rush traffic hours this week.
This is being done so that Georgia Tech can complete the final phase
of a traffic survey on the North Expressway. Students have been
using electric computers and high speed movie cameras during the study.
Perhaps the engineers can find out what causes all the congestion and
suggest methods to eliminate it.   Incidentally, 14th Street
and the Expressway is the high accident intersection during daylight
hours. It is followed by Cain Street and Piedmont Avenue, ~NE;
the junction of the Northeast and Northwest Expressways and Jones
Avenue and Marietta Street, ~NW.
   Four persons died in Georgia weekend traffic crashes, two of
them
in a fiery crash near Snellville, the State Patrol said Sunday.
   The latest death reported was that of 4-year-old Claude Douglas
Maynor of Calvary. Troopers said the child ran into the path
of a passing car a half-mile north of Calvary on Georgia 111 in Grady
County.   That death occurred at 6:50 p&m& Friday and
was reported Sunday, the patrol said. #BURSTS INTO FLAMES# An
auto overturned, skidding into a stopped tractor-trailer and burst into
flames near Snellville, the patrol said.   Bobby Bester Hammett,
21, of Rte& 3, Lawrenceville, and Mrs& Lucille Herrington
Jones, 23, of Lawrenceville, died in the flaming car, the patrol
said.
_SALEM (SPECIAL)_- For a second month in a row, Multnomah County
may be short of general assistance money in its budget to handle an
unusually high summer month's need, the state public welfare commission
was told Friday.   It is the only county in the state so
far this month reporting a possible shortage in ~GA category, for
which emergency allotment can be given by the state if necessary.
   William Smythe, director of field service, told the commissioners
that Multnomah, as of Aug& 22, had spent $58,918 out of its budgeted
$66,000 in the category, leaving only $7,082 for the rest of the month.
   At the rate of need indicated in the early weeks of the
month, this could mean a shortage of as high as $17,000. But it probably
will be less because of a usual slackening during the last weeks of
each month, Smythe said. No request for emergency allotment had yet
been received, however. #BOARD OKS PACT# The commission, meeting
for the first time with both of its newly-appointed commissioners, Roy
Webster, of Hood River, and Dr& Ennis Keizer, of North Bend,
approved a year's contract for a consultant in the data processing
department who has been the center of considerable controversy in
the past.   The contract with Ray Field, who has been converting
the agencies electronic data processing program to magnetic tape, would
renew his present salary of $8 an hour up to a maximum of 200 hours
a month.   Field does the planning for the machine operations
and fiscal processes and the adapting of the data processing system to
new programs as they are made necessary by legislative and policy changes.
   Acting Administrator Andrew F& Juras said that because
of Field's unique position and knowledge in the program, the
agency now would be seriously handicapped if he was not continued for
a period.   But he emphasized that the agency must train people
within its own employ to fulfill what Field handles, and he said he personally
"regrets very much that the agency has not done this in the
past".   He pointed out to the commissioners that the agency
was literally dependent now on the machine processing, "and the whole
wheels of the agency would stop if it broke down or the three or four
persons directing it were to leave". #SALARY TERMED MODEST# Juras
said he insisted Field be continued on a consultant basis only
and be answerable directly to the administrator of the agency and not
to other agencies of the government. He also said that the salary,
in
terms of going rates in the field, was "modest" in terms of the man's
responsibility. The conversion to magnetic tape is not yet completed,
he said, and added Field's long service in state government
and welfare employ gave him familiarity with the welfare program.
   "Do you feel you can stand up to the next legislative session and
defend this contract"? asked Mrs& Grace O& Peck, representative
from Multnomah County, of the commission chairman, Joseph E&
Harvey Jr&.   "My feeling at the moment", he said,
"is that we have no alternative, irrespective of some of the arguments
about him. The continued operation of this program depends on having
his service". #HARVEY CRITICIZED# Mrs& Peck, later joined
by the commission's vice-chairman, Mrs& Lee Patterson, took Harvey
to task for comments he had made to the North Portland Rotary
Club Tuesday.   A publicity release from Oregon Physicians
Service, of which Harvey is president, quoted him as saying the welfare
office move to Salem, instead of "crippling" the agency,
had provided an avenue to correct administrative weaknesses, with the
key being improved communications between ~F+~A and the commission
staff.   "I rather resent", she said, "you speaking to
those groups in Portland as though just the move accomplished this.
**h I think you fell short of the real truth in the matter: That the
move is working out through the fine cooperation of the staff and all
the people. **h The staff deserves a lot of credit working
down here under real obstacles".   Harvey said his objective
was to create a better public image for welfare".
   The wife of convicted bank robber Lawrence G& Huntley was
arrested in Phoenix, Ariz&, last week and will be returned to Portland
to face charges of assault and robbery, Portland detectives said
Friday.   Mrs& Lavaughn Huntley is accused of driving the
getaway car used in a robbery of the Woodyard Bros&' Grocery,
2825 E& Burnside St&, in April of 1959.   Her husband,
who was sentenced to 15 years in the federal prison at McNeil Island
last April for robbery of the Hillsdale branch of Multnomah Bank,
also was charged with the store holdup. Secret Grand Jury indictments
were returned against the pair last week, Detective Murray Logan
reported.   The Phoenix arrest culminates more than a year's
investigation by Detective William Taylor and other officers. Taylor
said Mrs& Huntley and her husband also will be questioned about
a series of 15 Portland robberies in spring of 1959 in which the
holdup men bound their victims with tape before fleeing.   Mrs&
Huntley was held on $20,000 bond in Phoenix. She was arrested by
Phoenix Police after they received the indictment papers from Portland
detectives.
   A 12-year-old girl, Susan Elaine Smith, 9329 ~NE Schuyler
St& was in serious condition Friday at Bess Kaiser Hospital,
victim of a bicycle-auto collision in the Gateway Shopping Center,
parking area, Deputy Sheriff W& H& Forsyth reported.
   Funeral for William Joseph Brett, 1926 ~NE 50th Ave&,
who died Thursday in Portland, will be Monday 1 p&m& at the Riverview
Abbey.   Mr& Brett, born in Brooklyn, N&Y&,
Dec& 15, 1886, came to Portland in 1920. He owned a logging equipment
business here from 1923 to 1928, and later became Northwest district
manager for Macwhyte Co&. He retired in 1958.   Survivors
are his widow, Alice; a son, William, Seattle, Wash&; three
sisters, Mrs& Eugene Horstman, Los Angeles, Mrs& Lucy
Brett Andrew, New York City, and Mrs& Beatrice Kiefferm, New
York City, and five grandchildren.
   Employes of Montgomery Ward + Co& at The Dalles, in a National
Labor Relations Board election Thursday voted to decertify
Local 1565, Retail Clerks International Association, ~AFL-~CIO,
as their collective bargaining agent.   The ~NLRB
said that of 11 potentially eligible voters eight voted against the
union, two voted for it, and one vote was challenged.
   Monte Brooks, 67, theatrical producer and band leader, collapsed
and died Thursday in a Lloyd Center restaurant. He lived at 6124
N& Willamette Blvd&.   For many years he had provided
music and entertainment for functions throughout the Northwest. These
included Oregon State Fair, for which he had been booked on and off,
for 30 years.   He collaborated with many of the big name entertainers
visiting Portland, among the most recent being Jimmy Durante
and Phil Silvers.   He had conducted the 20-piece band in
a series of concerts at Blue Lake park during the summer months.
   Mr& Brooks was born in New York, and came to Portland in 1920.
He planned at one time to enter the legal profession, but gave up
the plan in favor of the entertainment field.   He was a member
of Harmony lodge, No& 12, ~AF+~AM, Scottish Rite; Al
Kader Temple of the Shrine; Order of Elks, Lodge No& 142;
40 + 8 Voiture, No& 25, Musician's Union, Local 99.
   He was a former commander of Willamette Heights, Post, and a member
of Nevah Sholom Congregation.   Survivors are his widow,
Tearle; a son, Sheldon Brooks; a daughter, Mrs& Sidney S&
Stein Jr&, Dorenzo, Calif&; a sister, Mrs& Birdie Gevurtz;
two brothers, Charley and Aaron Cohn, San Francisco; and
five grandchildren.   Services will be at 2:30 p&m& Monday
at Holman + Son Funeral Home, with interment in Neveh Zebek
cemetery. The family requests that flowers be omitted.
   A 16-year-old Portland businessman and his Junior Achievement
company, have been judged the "Company of the Year" in national
competition completed this week at Ohio State University, Columbus,
Ohio.   Tim Larson, a junior at Wilson High School
and president of Spice-Nice, is the young executive who guided his firm
to the top-ranking position over the 4,500 other Junior Achievement
companies in the United States and Canada. The award is the first
such honor in the 11-year history of ~JA activities in Portland,
according to Ralph Scolatti, local executive director for Junior
Achievement.   Spice-Nice, counseled by Georgia-Pacific Corp&,
had previously taken first-place honors in both local competition
and the regional conference at San Francisco. The "pocket-size"
company set records with $2,170 in sales of its products, a selection
of barbecue spices, and paid stockholders a 20 per cent dividend
on their investment. #YOUNGSTERS DO BUSINESS# The Junior Achievement
program is designed to give teenagers practical experience in business
by allowing them actually to form small companies, under the guidance
and sponsorship of business firms. The youngsters sell stock,
produce and sell a product, pay taxes, and show a profit **h or loss **h
just like full-scale businesses.   National competition was the
culmination of work which began with the school year last fall and
continued until just before summer vacation. Participants in the 27 Portland
companies worked one night a week through the school year, guided
and counseled by adult advisors drawn from local business and industry.
Over 400 Portland firms contributed funds for the maintenance
of Junior Achievement headquarters here.   For winning Larson
will receive a $100 U&S& Savings Bond from the Junior Achievement
national organization. His company, Spice-Nice, will receive
a $250 award, which will be distributed among the 16 charter members.
#~G-~P MEN SERVED# Advisors for the "national champion"
company were John K& Morgan, William H& Baker, Leonard Breuer
and William F& Stephenson, all of Georgia-Pacific Corp&.
   Young Larson is the son of Mr& and Mrs& Lawrence Larson,
5847 ~SW Nevada Ct&, Portland.   Other members of
the Portland delegation attending the conference in Columbus are:
Kathleen Mason, Jefferson high school; Phil Reifenrath, Madison
high school; Ann Wegener, Madison; Richard E& Cohn, Grant;
Karen Kolb, Franklin; and Shelby Carlson, Cleveland.
_HILLSBORO (SPECIAL)_- Washington County's 36th annual fair
will close Saturday evening with 4-~H and ~FFA awards program
at 7, public dance at 8 and variety show at 8:30.   On the day's
schedule are a flower show, 4-~H horsemanship contest and clown
shows, the latter at 11 a&m& and 3 p&m&.   Attendance
continued to run ahead of last year's during the five-day show, with
clear skies helping attract fairgoers.   Exhibition ballroom dancers
from the studio of Helen Wick Walters of Hillsboro won the
all-county talent contest. Bill Davis quartet of Hillsboro was second
and baton twirler Sue Ann Nuttall of Reedville third. Finalists
from the county's east end failed to place. #RESULTS:# Janet
Jossy of North Plains won grand champion honors of the 4-~H sheep
showman contest. Blue ribbons went to Stephanie Shaw of Hillsboro,
Larry Hinton
of Beaverton. Joan Zurcher of Hillsboro, Phyllis
Jossy of North Plains, Jane Cox of North Plains. Kathy Jossy
of Hillsboro, Carol Jossy of North Plains and Lorlyn and Tom
Zurcher of Hillsboro.   Tom Day of Beaverton exhibited the
grand champion 4-~H market hog, a Chester White. Also winning blue
ribbons were Bob Day of Beaverton, Tony Traxel of Beaverton and
Steve Hutchins of Banks.   Swine showmanship championship
went
to Bob Day, with Tom Day and Hutchins winning other blues.
   Charles Reynolds of Pumpkin Ridge was rabbit showmanship champion.
   In poultry judging, blues were won by John Nyberg of Tualatin,
Anne Batchelder of Hillsboro, Jim Shaw of Hillsboro, Stephanie
Shaw of Hillsboro and Lynn Robinson of Tigard.   Blue
ribbon for one dozen white eggs was taken by Nyberg.   In
open class poultry, Donald Wacklin of Sherwood had the champion male
and female bird and grand champion bird.   John Haase + Son
of Corneilus was the only entrant in open class swine and swept all
championships.
   Carol Strong, 13, of Cedar Mill cooked the championship
junior dollar dinner. Millie Jansen, high school senior from
Verboort, had the championship dollar dinner, and Jody Jaross of
Hillsboro also won a blue ribbon.   Barbara Borland of Tigard
took top senior individual home economics honors with a demonstration
called filbert hats.
   About 70 North Providence taxpayers made appeals to the board
of tax accessors for a review of their 1961 tax assessments during the
last two days at the town hall in Centredale.   These were
the last
two days set aside by the board for hearing appeals. Appeals were heard
for two days two weeks ago. About 75 persons appeared at that time.
   Louis H& Grenier, clerk of the board, said that the appeals
will be reviewed in December at the time the board is visiting new
construction sites in the town for assessment purposes. They also
will visit properties on which appeals have been made.   Any adjustments
which are made, Mr& Grenier said earlier this month, will
appear on the balance of the tax bill since most of the town's taxpayers
take the option of paying quarterly with the balance due next year.
   John Pezza, 69, of 734 Hartford Avenue, Providence, complained
of shoulder pains after an accident in which a car he was driving
collided with a car driven by Antonio Giorgio, 25, of 12 DeSoto St&,
Providence, on Greenville Avenue and Cherry Hill Road in
Johnston yesterday.   Mr& Giorgio had started to turn left off
Greenville Avenue onto Cherry Hill Road when his car was struck
by the Pezza car, police said. Both cars were slightly damaged.
   Mr& Pezza was taken to a nearby Johnston physician, Dr& Allan
A& DiSimone, who treated him. Mr& Giorgio was
uninjured.
   Thieves yesterday ransacked a home in the Garden Hills section
of Cranston and stole an estimated $3,675 worth of furs, jewels,
foreign coins and American dollars.   Mr& and Mrs& Stephen
M& Kochanek reported the theft at their home on 41 Garden Hills
Drive at about 6 last night. They told police the intruders took a
mink coat worth $700, a black Persian lamb jacket worth $450; a wallet
with $450 in it; a collection of English, French and German
coins, valued at $500; four rings, a watch and a set of pearl earrings.
   One of the rings was a white gold band with a diamond setting,
valued at $900. The others were valued at $325, $75 and $65. The
watch was valued at $125 and the earrings at $85.   The Kochaneks
told police they left home at 8 a&m& and returned about 5:45
p&m& and found the house had been entered. Patrolman Robert J&
Nunes, who investigated, said the thieves broke in through the back
door. Drawers and cabinets in two bedrooms and a sewing room were ransacked.
   The city sewer maintenance division said efforts will be made
Sunday to clear a stoppage in a sewer connection at Eddy and Elm Streets
responsible for dumping raw sewage into the Providence River.
   The division said it would be impossible to work on the line
until then because of the large amount of acid sewage from jewelry plants
in the area flowing through the line, heavy vehicle traffic on Eddy
Street and tide conditions.
   A two-family house at 255 Brook Street has been purchased by
Brown University from Lawrence J& Sullivan, according to a deed
filed Monday at City Hall. F& Morris Cochran, university vice
president and business manager, said the house has been bought to provide
rental housing for faculty families, particularly for those here
for a limited time.
   Employes of Pawtucket's garbage and rubbish collection contractor
picketed the firm's incinerator site yesterday in the second
day of a strike for improved wages and working conditions.   Thomas
Rotelli, head of Rhode Island Incinerator Service, Inc&, said
four of the company's eight trucks were making collections with
both newly hired and regular workers.   Sydney Larson, a staff
representative for the United Steel Workers, which the firm's 25
workers joined before striking, said the state Labor Relations Board
has been asked to set up an election to pick a bargaining agent.
   A 62-year-old Smithfield man, Lester E& Stone of 19 Beverly
Circle, was in satisfactory condition last night at Our Lady of
Fatima Hospital, North Providence, with injuries suffered when a
car he was driving struck a utility pole on Woonasquatucket Avenue
in North Providence near Stevens Street.   Mr& Stone suffered
fractured ribs and chest cuts, hospital authorities said. He was
taken to the hospital by the North Providence ambulance.   Before
hitting the pole, Mr& Stone's car brushed against a car driven
by Alva W& Vernava, 21, of 23 Maple Ave&, North Providence,
tearing away the rear bumper and denting the left rear fender of
the Vernava car, police said. Mr& Vernava was uninjured.   The
impact with the utility pole caused a brief power failure in the immediate
area of the accident. One house was without power for about
half an hour, a Narragansett Electric Co& spokesman said. The power
was off for about five minutes in houses along Smith Street as far
away as Fruit Hill Avenue shortly before 5 p&m& when the accident
occurred.
   The fight over the Warwick School Committee's appointment
of a coordinator of audio-visual education may go to the state Supreme
Court, it appeared last night.   Two members of the Democratic-endorsed
majority on the school board said they probably would vote
to appeal a ruling by the state Board of Education, which said yesterday
that the school committee acted improperly in its appointment of
the coordinator, Francis P& Nolan 3rd, the Democratic-endorsed
committee chairman, could not be reached for comment.   In its
ruling, the state Board of Education upheld Dr& Michael F& Walsh,
state commissioner of education, who had ruled previously that
the Warwick board erred when it named Maurice F& Tougas as coordinator
of audio-visual education without first finding that the school
superintendent's candidate was not suitable.   Supt& Clarence
S& Taylor had recommended Roger I& Vermeersch for the post.
   Milton and Rosella Lovett of Cranston were awarded $55,000
damages from the state in Superior Court yesterday for industrial property
which they owned at 83 Atwells Ave&, Providence, and which
was condemned for use in construction of Interstate Route 95.
   The award was made by Judge Fred B& Perkins who heard their
petition without a jury by agreement of the parties.   The award,
without interest, compared with a valuation of $57,500 placed on the
property by the property owners' real estate expert, and a valuation
of $52,500 placed on it by the state's expert.   The property
included a one-story brick manufacturing building on 8,293 square feet
of land.   Saul Hodosh represented the owners. Atty& Gen&
J& Joseph Nugent appeared for the state.
   Santa's lieutenants in charge of the Journal-Bulletin Santa
Claus Fund are looking for the usual generous response this year
from Cranston residents.   Persons who find it convenient may send
their contributions to the Journal-Bulletin's Cranston office
at 823 Park Avenue. All contributed will be acknowledged.   The
fund's statewide quota this year is $8,250 to provide Christmas
gifts for needy youngsters. Scores of Cranston children will be remembered.
   Cranston residents have been generous contributors to
the fund over the years. Public school children have adopted the fund
as one of their favorite Christmas charities and their pennies, nickels,
dimes and quarters aid greatly in helping Santa to reach the fund's
goal.
   Bernard Parrillo, 20, of 19 Fletcher Ave&, Cranston, was
admitted to Roger Williams Hospital shortly before 11:30 a&m&
yesterday after a hunting accident in which a shotgun he was carrying
discharged against his heel.   Mr& Parrillo was given first
aid at Johnston Hose 1. (Thornton) where he had been driven by a companion.
The two had been hunting in the Simmonsville area of town
and Mr& Parrillo dropped the gun which fired as it struck the ground.
   Hospital officials said the injury was severe but the youth
was in good condition last night.
   A check for $4,177.37 representing the last payment of a $50,000
federal grant to Rhode Island Hospital was presented to the hospital
administrator, Oliver G& Pratt, yesterday by Governor Notte.
   The hospital has used the money to assist in alterations on
the fifth floor of the Jane Brown Hospital, part of Rhode Island
Hospital. The work added eight beds to the hospital, giving it a total
capacity of 646 general beds.
   Vincent Sorrentino, founder and board chairman of the Uncas
Mfg& Co&, has been designated a Cavaliere of the Order of Merit
of the Republic of Italy.   The decoration will be presented
by A& Trichieri, Italian consul general in Boston, at a ceremony
at 2:30 p& m& on Dec& 7
at the plant, which this year is celebrating
its golden anniversary. About 500 employes of the firm will be
on hand to witness bestowal of the honor upon Mr& Sorrentino.
   Mr& Sorrentino will be honored on the evening of Dec& 7
at a dinner to be given by the Aurora Club at the Sheraton-Biltmore
Hotel.
   The Newport-based destroyer picket escort Kretchmer has arrived
back at Newport after three months' patrol in North Atlantic
waters marked by mercy jobs afloat and ashore.   On Sept& 6,
the Kretchmer rescued the crew of a trawler they found drifting on a
life raft after they had abandoned a sinking ship. In August while stopping
in Greenock, Scotland, three members of the crew on liberty
rendered first aid to a girl who fell from a train. Local authorities
credited the men with saving the girl's life.
_BIRMINGHAM, ALA&- (~AP)_-
The ~FBI yesterday arrested
on a perjury charge one of the members of the jury that failed to reach
a verdict in the "Freedom Rider" bus burning trial four weeks
ago.   U&S& Attorney Macon Weaver said the federal complaint,
charged that the juror gave false information when asked about
Ku Klux Klan membership during selection of jury.   He identified
the man as Lewis Martin Parker, 59, a farmer of Hartselle,
Ala&.   Eight men were tried together in U&S& District
Court in Anniston, Ala&, on charges of interfering with interstate
transportation and conspiracy growing out of a white mob's attack
on a Greyhound bus carrying the first of the Freedom Riders. The
bus was
burned outside Anniston.   One of the eight defendants was
freed on a directed verdict of acquittal. A mistrial was declared in
the case against the other seven when the jury was unable to agree on
a verdict.   The arrest of Mr& Parker marks the third charge
of wrongdoing involving the jury that heard the case.   The first
incident occurred before the trial got under way when Judge H&
Hobart Grooms told the jury panel he had heard reports of jury-tampering
efforts.   He asked members of the panel to tell him if anyone
outside the court had spoken to them about the case. Two members
of the panel later told in court about receiving telephone calls at their
homes from anonymous persons expressing interest in the trial. Neither
was seated on the jury.   Then, when the case went to the
jury, the judge excused one of the jurors, saying the juror had told him
he had been accosted by masked men at his motel the night before the
trial opened. The juror said the masked men had advised him to be lenient.
The judge replaced the juror with an alternate.   No formal
charges have been filed as a result of either of the two reported
incidents.   At the opening of the trial, the jury panel was questioned
as a group by Mr& Weaver about Ku Klux Klan connections.
   One member of the panel- not Mr& Parker- indicated
he had been a member of the ~KKK at one time. He was not seated
on the jury.   The perjury charge against Mr& Parker carries
a maximum penalty of $2,000 fine and five years imprisonment on conviction.
_NEW YORK- (~UPI)_- The New York University Board of
Trustees has elected the youngest president in the 130-year history
of ~NYU, it was announced yesterday.   The new president is
37-year-old Dr& James McN& Hester, currently dean of the ~NYU
Graduate School of Arts and Sciences. He will take over his
new post Jan& 1.   Dr& Hester, also one of the youngest
men ever to head a major American university, succeeds Dr& Carroll
V& Newsom who resigned last September to join Prentice-Hall Inc&
publishing firm.   Dr& Hester, of Princeton, N&J&,
is a native of Chester, Pa& He joined ~NYU in September,
1960. Prior to that he was associated with Long Island University
in Brooklyn.
_ASILOMAR, MARCH 26_ Vast spraying programs conducted by "technicians
with narrow training and little wisdom" are endangering crops
and wildlife, Carl W& Buchheister, president of the National Audubon
Society, said today.   "It is like handing a loaded .45
automatic to an 8-year-old and telling him to run out and play", he
commented.   Buchheister told delegates to the West Coast Audubon
Convention that aerial spraying in Louisiana failed to destroy
its target, the fire ant.   "But it did destroy the natural
controls of a borer and released a new plague that wrecked a sugar cane
crop", he said.   The conservation leader said other mistakes
in spraying had caused serious damage in Ohio and Wyoming. There
have even been serious errors in the U& S& Forest Service,
whose
officials pride themselves in their scientific training, he added.
   "The news of their experiments reach the farmers who, forgetting
that birds are the most efficient natural enemies of insects and rodents,
are encouraged to try to get rid of all birds that occasionally
peck their grapes or their blueberries", Buchheister told the delegates.
   In addition to urging greater restrictions on aerial spraying,
Buchheister called for support of the Wilderness bill, creation
of national seashore parks, including Point Reyes; preservation
of the wetlands where birds breed; a pesticides co-ordination act;
stronger water pollution control programs, and Federal ratification
of an international convention to halt pollution of the sea by
oil.
   The Reed Rogers Da Fonta Wild Life Sanctuary in Marin
county on Friday officially became the property of the National Audubon
Society.   Mrs& Norman Livermore, president of the Marin
Conservation League, handed over the deed to the 645-acre tidelands
tract south of Greenwood Beach to Carl W& Buchheister, president
of the Society.   The presentation was made before several
hundred persons at the annual meeting of the League at Olney Hall,
College of Marin, Kentfield.   Buchheister pledged the land
would be an "inviolate" sanctuary for all birds, animals and plants.
   Seventeen years ago today, German scientist Willy Fiedler climbed
into a makeshift cockpit installed in a ~V-1 rocket-bomb that
was attached to the underbelly of a Heinkel bomber.   The World
War /2, German bomber rolled down a runway and took off.
   The only way Fiedler could get back to earth alive was to fly the
pulse jet missile and land it on the airstrip. This had never been done
before.   Now a quiet-spoken, middle-aged man, Fiedler is an
aeronautical engineer for Lockheed's Missiles and Space Division
at Sunnyvale, where he played a key role in the development of the
Navy's Polaris missile.   He sat in his office yesterday and
recalled that historic flight in 1944.   "The first two pilots
had crashed", he said. "I had developed the machines and therefore
knew them. It was time to go up myself".   Fiedler was then
technical director of Hitler's super-secret "Reichenberg project",
which remained unknown to the Allies until after the war.
   About 200 of the special ~V-1 rocket-bombs were to be made ready
for manned flight with an explosive warhead. The target was Allied
shipping- a desperate effort to stave off the Allied invasion of
Europe.   The success of the project depended upon Fiedler's
flight.   Squeezed into the few cubic feet normally filled by
the rocket's automatic guidance mechanism, the scientist waited while
the bomber gained altitude.   At 12,000 feet, Fiedler signaled
"release", and started the roaring pulse-jet engine- then streaked
away from beneath the Heinkel.   To the German pilot in the
bomber the rocket became a faint black speck, hurtling through the
sky at the then incredible speed of 420 m&p&h&.   It was probably
man's first successful flight in a missile. "She flew beautifully",
said Fiedler. "There was only one power control- a valve
to adjust the fuel flow. I had exactly 20 minutes to get down to
the test strip".   Using a steering system that controlled the
modified rocket's tail surfaces and wings equipped with ailerons,
Fiedler was to land the missile on a skid especially bolted under the
fuselage.   He managed to maneuver the missile to a landing speed
of 200 m&p&h&- fast even for a modern jet plane touchdown-
and banked into the airfield.   Moments later the ~V-1 skimmed
across the landing strip, edging closer and closer to a touchdown-
then in a streamer of dust it landed.   Fiedler went on to make
several other test flights before German pilots took over the Reichenberg
missiles.   The missiles were to be armed with an underwater
bomb. Pilots would steer them in a suicide dive into the water,
striking below the waterline of individual ships.   A crack corps
of 50 pilots was formed from the ranks of volunteers, but the project
was halted before the end of the war, and the missiles later fell into
Allied hands.   Now a family man with three children, Fiedler
lives in a quiet residential area near the Lockheed plant at Sunnyvale.
His spare time is spent in soaring gliders.   "It's
so quiet", he said, "so slow, serene- and so challenging".
   John Di Massimo has been elected president of the 1961 Columbus
Day Celebration Committee, it was announced yesterday.
Other officers are Angelo J& Scampini, vice president, Joseph V&
Arata, treasurer, and Fred J& Casassa, secretary.
Judge
John B& Molinari was named chairman of the executive committee.
Elected to the board of directors were:   Elios P& Anderlini,
Attilio Beronio, Leo M& Bianco, Frederic Campagnoli,
Joseph Cervetto, Armond J& De Martini, Grace Duhagon, John
P& Figone, John P& Figone Jr&, Stephen Mana, John Moscone,
Calude Perasso, Angelo Petrini, Frank Ratto, and George R&
Reilly.
   Dr& Albert Schweitzer, world-famous theologian and
medical
missionary, has endorsed an Easter March for Disarmament which begins
tomorrow in Sunnyvale.   Members of the San Francisco American
Friends Service, a Quaker organization, will march to San Francisco
for a rally in Union Square at 2 p& m& Saturday.
   In a letter to the American Friends Service, Dr& Schweitzer
wrote:   "Leading Nations of the West and of the East keep
busy making newer nuclear weapons to defend themselves in the event
the constantly threatening nuclear war should break out.   "They
cannot do otherwise than live in dread of each other since these weapons
imply the possibility of such grisly surprise attack. The only
way out of this state of affairs is agreement to abolish nuclear weapons;
otherwise no peace is possible.   "Governments apparently
do not feel obligated to make the people adequately aware of this danger;
therefore we need guardians to demonstrate against the ghastly
stupidity of nuclear weapons and jolt the people out of their complacency".
   A federal grand jury called 10 witnesses yesterday in an investigation
of the affairs of Ben Stein, 47, who collected big fees as
a "labor consultant" and operator of a janitors' service.
Before he testified for 20 minutes, Stein, who lives at 3300 Lake
Shore dr&, admitted to reporters that he had a wide acquaintance with
crime syndicate hoodlums. #GLIMCO A BUDDY# Among his gangland
buddies, he said, were
Joseph [Joey] Glimco, a mob labor racketeer,
and four gang gambling chiefs, Gus [Slim] Alex, Ralph Pierce,
Joe [Caesar] DiVarco, and Jimmy [Monk] Allegretti.
Another hoodlum, Louis Arger, drew $39,000 from Stein's janitor
firm, the National Maintenance company, in three years ending in 1959,
Stein disclosed in an interview.   "I put Arger on the payroll
because he promised to get my firm the stevedore account at Navy
pier", Stein said. "But Arger never was able to produce it, so
I cut him off my payroll". #CONNECTION IS SOUGHT# Other witnesses,
after appearances before the jury, which reportedly is probing
into possible income tax violations, disclosed that government prosecutors
were attempting to connect Stein and his company with a number of
gangsters, including Glimco and Alex.   The federal lawyers,
according to their witnesses, also were tracing Stein's fees as a
labor consultant. Under scrutiny, two of the witnesses said, were payments
and loans to Stein's National Maintenance company at 543 Madison
st&.   The company supplies janitors and workmen for
McCormick
Place and factories, liquor firms, and other businesses. #LEE
A WITNESS# Among the witnesses were Ed J& Lee, director of
McCormick Place; Jerome Leavitt, a partner in the Union Liquor
company, 3247 S& Kedzie av&, Dominic Senese, a teamster union
slugger who is a buddy of Stein and a cousin of Tony Accardo, onetime
gang chief; and Frank W& Pesce, operator of a Glimco dominated
deodorant firm, the Best Sanitation and Supply company, 1215
Blue Island av&.   Lee said he had told the jury that he made
an agreement in April with Stein to supply and supervise janitors
in McCormick Place. Stein's fee, Lee said, was 10 per cent of
the janitors' pay. Stein estimated this amount at "about $1,500
or $1,600 a month". #A $12,500 PAYMENT# Leavitt, as he entered
the jury room, said he was prepared to answer questions about the $12,500
his liquor firm paid to Stein for "labor consultant work" with
five unions which organized Leavitt's workers. Leavitt identified
the unions as a warehouseman's local, the teamsters union, a salesman's
union, the janitors' union, and a bottling workers' union.
   Government attorneys, Leavitt said, have questioned him closely
about "five or six loans" totaling about $40,000 which the liquor
company made to Stein in the last year.   All of the loans,
in amounts up to $5,000 each, have been repaid by Stein, according
to Leavitt. Stein said he needed the money, Leavitt said, to "meet
the payroll" at National Maintenance company.   The deodorant
firm run by Pesce has offices in the headquarters of Glimco's
discredited taxi drivers' union at 1213-15 Blue Island av&.
   The radiation station of the Chicago board of health recorded
a reading of 1 micro-microcurie of radiation per cubic meter of air over
Chicago yesterday.   The reading, which has been watched
with
interest since Russia's detonation of a super bomb Monday, was 4
on Tuesday and 7 last Saturday, a level far below the danger point,
according to the board of health.   The weather bureau has estimated
that radioactive fallout from the test might arrive here next week.
A board of health spokesman said there is no reason to believe that
an increase in the level here will occur as a result of the detonation.
   Curtis Allen Huff, 41, of 1630 Lake av&, Wilmette, was arrested
yesterday on a suppressed federal warrant charging him with embezzling
an undetermined amount of money from the First Federal Savings
and Loan association, 1 S& Dearborn st&, where he formerly
was employed
as an attorney.   Federal prosecutors estimated that the
amount may total $20,000, altho a spokesman for the association estimated
its loss at approximately $10,000. #LIEN PAYMENTS INVOLVED#
Huff's attorney, Antone F& Gregorio, quoted his client as saying
that part of the embezzlement represented money paid to Huff, as
attorney for the loan association, in satisfaction of mechanic's liens
on property on which the association held mortgages.   Huff told
Gregorio that he took the money to pay "the ordinary bills and
expenses of suburban living".   Huff, who received a salary of
$109 a week from the loan association from October of 1955 until September
of this year, said that his private practice was not lucrative.
Huff lives with his wife, Sue, and their four children, 6 to 10 years
old, in a $25,000 home with a $17,000 mortgage. #CHARGE LISTS 3
CHECKS# The complaint on which the warrant was issued was filed by
Leo Blaber, an attorney for the association.   The shortage was
discovered after Huff failed to report for work on Sept& 18. On
that date, according to Gregorio, Huff left his home and took a room
in the New Lawrence hotel at 1020 Lawrence av&. There, Gregorio
said, Huff wrote a complete statement of his offense.   Later,
Huff cashed three checks for $100 each at the Sherman House, using
a credit card. All bounced.   When Huff attempted to cash another
$100 check there Monday, hotel officials called police.
_BONN, OCT& 24 (~UPI)_- Greece and West Germany have ratified
an agreement under which Germany will pay $28,700,000 to Greek
victims of Nazi persecution, it was announced today.
   PROBABLY THE hottest thing that has hit the Dallas investment
community in years was the Morton Foods stock issue, which was
sold to the public during the past week.   For many reasons, the
demand to buy shares in the Dallas-headquartered company was tremendous.
It was not a case of the investment bankers having to sell the
stock; it was more one of allotting a few shares to a number of customers
and explaining to others why they had no more to sell.   Investors
who wanted 100 shares in many cases ended up with 25, and customers
who had put in a bid to buy 400 shares found themselves with 100
and counted themselves lucky to get that many.   In fact, very
few customers, anywhere in the nation, were able to get more than 100
shares. Some Dallas investment firms got only 100 shares, for all of
their customers.   A measure of how hot the stock was, can be
found in what happened to it on the market as soon as trading began.
   The stock was sold in the underwriting at a price of $12.50 a share.
The first over-the-counter trade Wednesday afternoon at Eppler,
Guerin + Turner, the managing underwriter, was at $17 a share. And
from that the stock moved right on up until it was trading Thursday
morning at around $22 a share.   But the Morton Foods issue
was hot long before it was on the market. Indeed, from the moment the
reports of the coming issue first started circulating in Dallas last
January, the inquiries and demand for the stock started building up.
   Letters by the reams came in from investment firms all over the
nation, all of them wanting to get a part of the shares that would
be sold (185,000 to the public at $12.50, with another 5,000 reserved
for Morton Foods employes at $11.50 a share).   There was even
a cable in French from a bank in Switzerland that had somehow learned
about the Dallas stock offering. "We subscribe 500 shares of Morton
Foods of Texas. Cable confirmation", it said translated. But
E&G&T& could not let the Swiss bank have even 10 shares.
   After it allotted shares to 41 underwriters and 52 selling group
members from coast to coast there were not many shares for anyone.
   But the result of it all was, E&G&T& partner Dean Guerin
believes, an effective distribution of the stock to owners all
over the nation.   "I feel confident the stock will qualify for
the 'national list'", he said, meaning its market price would
be quoted regularly in newspapers all over the country.   He was
also pleased with the wide distribution because he thought it proved
again his argument that Dallas investment men can do just as good a
job as the big New York investment bankers claim only they can do.
   But what made the Morton Foods stock issue such a hot one?
   The answer is that it was a combination of circumstances.
   First, the general stock market has been boiling upward for the last
few months, driving stocks of all kinds up. As a result, it is not
easy to find a stock priced as the Morton issue was priced (at roughly
10 times 1960 earnings, to yield a little over 5 per cent on the 64~c
anticipated dividend).   Second, the "potato chip industry"
has caught the fancy of investors lately, and until Morton Foods
came along there were only two potato chip stocks- Frito and H&
W& Lay- on the market.   Both of those have had dynamic run-ups
in price on the market in recent months, both were selling at higher
price-earnings and yield bases than Morton was coming to market
at, and everyone who knew anything about it expected the Morton stock
to have a fast run-up.   And third, the potato chip industry has
taken on the flavor of a "growth" industry in the public mind of
late. Foods, which long had been considered "recession resistant"
but hardly dynamic stocks, have been acting like growth stocks, going
to higher price-earnings ratios.   The potato chip industry these
days is growing, not only as a
result of population increase and public
acceptance of convenience foods, but also because of a combination
of circumstances
that has led to growth by merger.   The history of the
U&S& potato chip industry is that many of today's successful
companies got started during the deep depression days. Those that remain
are those that were headed by strong executives, men with the abilities
to last almost 30 years in the competitive survival of the fittest.
   But today many of those men are reaching retirement age and
suddenly realizing that they face an estate tax problem with their
closely held companies and also that they have no second-echelon management
in their firms.   So they go looking for mergers with other
firms that have publicly quoted stock, and almost daily they pound on
the doors of firms like Frito.   All those things combined to
make the Morton Foods stock the hot issue that it was and is.
   Now, if Morton's newest product, a corn chip known as Chip-o's,
turns out to sell as well as its stock did, the stock may turn out
to be worth every cent of the prices that the avid buyers bid it up
to.
Dallas and North Texas is known world-wide as the manufacturing and
distribution center of cotton gin machinery and supplies, valued in the
millions of dollars.   More than 10 companies maintain facilities
in Dallas and one large manufacturer is located to the north at
Sherman.   It is no coincidence that the Texas Cotton Ginner's
Association is meeting here this week for the 46th time in their
52-year history.   The exhibition of cotton ginning machinery at
the State Fair grounds is valued at more than a million dollars. It
weighs in the tons, so the proximity of factory and exhibition area
makes it possible for an outstanding exhibit each year.   A modern
cotton gin plant costs in the neighborhood of $250,000, and it's
a safe assumption that a large percentage of new gins in the U&S&
and foreign countries contain machinery made in this area.
The Murray Co& of Texas, Inc&, originated in Dallas in 1896.
They've occupied a 22-acre site since the early 1900's. More than
700 employes make gin machinery that's sold anywhere cotton is grown.
   Murray makes a complete line of ginning equipment except
for driers and cleaners, and this machinery is purchased from a Dallas-based
firm.   The Continental Gin Co& began operations in
Dallas in 1899. The present company is a combination of several smaller
ones that date back to 1834.   Headquarters is in Birmingham,
Ala&. Factories are located here and in Prattville, Ala&.
About
40 per cent of the manufacturing is done at the Dallas plant by
more than 200 employes.   The company sells a complete line of
gin machinery all over the cotton-growing world.   Hardwicke-Etter
Co& of Sherman makes a full line of gin machinery and equipment.
The firm recently expanded domestic sales into the Southeastern
states as a result of an agreement with Cen-Tennial Gin Co&. They
export also.   The company began operation in 1900 with hardware
and oil mill supplies. In 1930, they began making cotton processing
equipment. Presently, Hardwicke-Etter employs 300-450 people, depending
on the season of the year.   The Lummus Cotton Gin Co&
has had a sales and service office in Dallas since 1912. Factory
operations are in Columbus, Ga&. The district office here employs
about 65.   The Moss Gordin Lint Cleaner Co& and Gordin
Unit System of Ginning have joint headquarters here. The cleaner
equipment firm began operations in 1953 and the unit system, which
turns out a complete ginning system, began operations in 1959.
Gordin manufacturing operations are in Lubbock.   The John E&
Mitchell Co& began work in Dallas in 1928. The firm is prominent
in making equipment for cleaning seed cotton, driers, and heaters,
and they lay claim to being the first maker (1910) of boil extraction
equipment.   The increase in mechanical harvesting of cotton makes
cleaning and drying equipment a must for modern gin operation.
   Mitchell employs a total of about 400 people. They export cotton
ginning machinery.   The Hinckley Gin Supply Co& is a maker
of "overhead equipment". This includes driers, cleaners, burr
extractors, separators and piping that's located above gin stands in
a complete gin.   The firm began operations back in 1925 and sells
equipment in the central cotton belt, including the Mississippi
Delta.   The Cen-Tennial Gin Supply Co& has home offices
and factory facilities here. They make gin saws and deal in parts, supplies
and some used gin machinery.   The Stacy Co& makes cleaning
and drying equipment for sale largely in Texas. They've been
in Dallas since 1921.   Cotton Belt Gin Service, Inc&
of Dallas makes gin saws and started here 14 years ago. They distribute
equipment in 11 states. The firm also handles gin and oil mill supplies
such as belting, bearings, etc&.   Cotton processing equipment
is a sizable segment of Dallas business economy.
New car sales in Dallas County during March showed slight signs of
recovering from the doldrums which have characterized sales this year.
   Registrations of new cars in Dallas County cracked the 3,000
mark in March for the first time this year.   Totaling 3,399,
sales jumped 14 per cent over February's 2,963. However, compared
with March 1960 new car sales of 4,441, this March was off 23 per
cent.   On a quarter-to-quarter comparison, the first quarter of
1961 total of 9,273 cars was 21 per cent behind the previous year's
3-month total of 11,744.   This year-to-year decline for Dallas
County closely follows the national trend- estimated sales of domestic
cars in the U&S& for first three months of 1961 were about
1,212,000 or 80 per cent of the total in the first quarter a year earlier.
   With the March pickup, dealers are optimistic that the
April-June quarter will equal or top last year. The March gain plus
this optimism has been encouraging enough to prompt auto makers to boost
production schedules for the next quarter.   On the local level,
compacts continue to grab a larger share of the market at the expense
of lower-priced standard models and foreign cars. Only three standard
models- Buick, Chrysler, and Mercury- had slight year-to-year
gains in March sales in the county.
   The top 3 students from 11 participating Dallas County high
schools will be honored by the Dallas Sales Executives Club at a banquet
at 6 p&m& Tuesday in the Sam Houston Room of the Sheraton-Dallas
Hotel as the club winds up its annual Distributive Education
project.   Now in its third year, the program is designed
to provide a laboratory for those youngsters seeking careers in marketing
and salesmanship. Business firms provide 20 weeks of practical employment
to supplement classroom instruction in these fields.   More
than 500 juniors and seniors are taking part in the program and 100
firms offer jobs on an educational rather than a need basis.
Principal address will be delivered by Gerald T& Owens, national
sales manager for Isodine Pharmical Corp& of New York.
The 33 honored students are: Mike Trigg, Raymond Arrington, and
Ronald Kaminsky of Bryan Adams, Janice Whitney, Fil Terral,
and Carl David Page of W& H& Adamson; Bill Burke, Tommie
Freeman, and Lawrence Paschall of N& R& Crozier Tech&
Paulah
Thompson, Gerald Kestner, and Nancy Stephenson of Hillcrest;
Arnold Hayes, Mary Ann Shay, and Lloyd Satterfield of Thomas
Jefferson;   William Cluck, Deloris Carrel Carty, and
Edna Earl Eaton of North Dallas; Patricia Ann Neal, Johnny
Carruthers, and David McLauchlin of Rylie of Seagoville; David
Wolverton, Sharon Flanagan, and James Weaver of W& W& Samuels;
William Austin, Gary Hammond, and Ronnie Davis of South
Oak Cliff; Bill Eaton, Carolyn Milton, and Ronnie Bert Stone
of Sunset; and Charles Potter, Ronnie Moore, and Robert Bailey
of Woodrow Wilson.
   The Kennedy administration's new housing and urban renewal
proposals, particularly their effect on the Federal Housing Administration,
came under fire in Dallas last week.   The Administration's
proposals, complex and sweeping as they are, all deal with fringe
areas of the housing market rather than its core, stated Caron
S& Stallard, first vice-president of the Mortgage Bankers Association
of America.
_SANTA BARBARA_- "The present recovery movement will gather steady
momentum to lift the economy to a new historic peak by this autumn",
Beryl W& Sprinkel, economist of Harris Trust + Savings
Bank, Chicago, predicted at the closing session here Tuesday of Investment
Bankers Assn&, California group, conference.   Another
speaker, William H& Draper, Jr&, former Under Secretary
of the Army and now with the Palo Alto venture capital firm of Draper,
Gaither + Anderson, urged the U&S& to "throw down the
gauntlet of battle to communism and tell Moscow bluntly we won't be
pushed arouny any more". He urged support for President Kennedy's
requests for both defense and foreign aid appropriations. #'NOT
FLASH IN PAN'# Sprinkel told conferees that the recent improvement
in economic activity was not a "temporary flash in the pan"
but the beginning of a substantial cyclical expansion that will carry
the economy back to full employment levels and witness a renewal of our
traditional growth pattern.   "In view of the current expansion,
which promises to be substantial" he said the odds appear to favor
rising interest rates in coming months, but "there is reason to
believe the change will not be as abrupt as in 1958 nor as severe as
in late 1959 and 1960". #THESIS REFUTED# Sprinkel strongly refuted
the current neo-stagnationist thesis that we are facing a future of
limited and slow growth, declaring that this pessimism "is based
on
very limited and questionable evidence".   Rather than viewing
the abortive recovery in 1959-60 as a reason for believing we have lost
prospects for growth", he said "it should be viewed as a lesson
well learned which will increase the probability of substantial improvement
in this recovery". #DANGER CITED# He cautioned that "the
greater danger in this recovery may be excessive stimulation by government
which could bring moderate inflation".   The economist
does not look for a drastic switch in the budget during this recovery
and believes it "even more unlikely that the Federal Reserve will
aggressively tighten monetary policy in the early phases of the upturn
as was the case in 1958".   The unsatisfactory 1958-60 expansion,
he said, was not due to inadequate growth forces inherent in our
economy but rather to the adverse effect of inappropriate economic policies
combined with retrenching decisions resulting from the steel strike.
#SACRIFICES NEEDED# Draper declared, "As I see it, this
country has never faced such great dangers as threaten us today. We
must justify our heritage. We must be ready for any needed sacrifice".
   He said that from his experience of two years with Gen&
Clay in West Berlin administration, that "Russia respects our show
of strength, but that presently we're not acting as we should and
must".   He called the Cuban tractor plan an outright blackmail
action, and noted that in war "you can't buy yourself out and
that's what we're trying to do".   While he declined to suggest,
how, he said that sooner or later we must get rid of Castro,
"for unless we do we're liable to face similar situations in this
hemisphere. Its the start of a direct threat to our own security and
I don't believe we can permit that".
_NEW YORK (~AP)_- {Stock market Tuesday staged a technical
recovery, erasing all of Monday's losses in the Associated Press
average and making the largest gain in about two weeks.}   Analysts
saw the move as a continuation of the recovery drive that got under
way late Monday afternoon when the list sank to a hoped-for "support
level" represented by around 675 in the Dow Jones industrial
average. It was a level at which some of the investors standing on
the sidelines were thought likely to buy the pivotal issues represented
in the averages. #SOME GOOD NEWS# Although it looked like a routine
technical snapback to Wall Streeters it was accompanied by some
good news. A substantial rise in new orders and sales of durable goods
was reported for last month.   Treasury Secretary Douglas Dillon
said the economy is expected to advance by a whopping 8% next
year, paving the way for lower taxes.   The Dow Jones industrial
average advanced 7.19 to 687.87.   Of 1,253 issues traded, 695
advanced and 354 declined. New highs for the year totaled nine and
new lows 14.   Trading was comparatively dull throughout the day.
Volume dipped to 3.28 million shares from 3.98 million Monday.
   A $25 billion advertising budget in an $800 billion economy was
envisioned for the 1970s here Tuesday by Peter G& Peterson, head
of one of the world's greatest camera firms, in a key address before
the American Marketing Assn&.   However, Peterson, president
of Bell + Howell, warned 800 U&S& marketing leaders attending
a national conference at the Ambassador, that the future will
belong to the industrialist of creative and "unconventional wisdom".
#CREATION'S NEEDED# "As we look to the $800 billion economy
that is predicted for 1970 and the increase of about 40% in consumer
expenditures that will be required to reach that goal, management
can well be restless about how this tremendous volume and number of new
products will be created and marketed", Peterson said.   "With
this kind of new product log-jam, the premium for brilliant
product
planning will obviously go up geometrically".   The executive
paid tribute to research and development and technology for their
great contributions in the past, but he also cautioned industry that
they tend to be great equalizers because they move at a fairly even pace
within an industry and fail to give it the short-term advantage which
it often needs. #NOTHING TO FEAR# Peterson said America has nothing
to fear in world competition if it dares to be original in both
marketing and product ideas. He cited, as an example, how the American
camera industry has been able to meet successfully the competition
of Japan despite lower Japanese labor costs, by improving its production
know-how and technology.   He also used as an example the
manufacturer who introduced an all-automatic camera in Germany, with
the result that it became the best selling camera in the German
market.
   Election of Howard L& Taylor to membership in Pacific Coast
Stock Exchange, effective Tuesday, has been announced by Thomas
P& Phelan, president of the exchange.   Taylor, president
and voting stockholder of Taylor and Co&, Beverly Hills, has been
active in the securities business since 1925.
   Union Oil Co& of California Tuesday offered $120 million
in debentures to the public through a group of underwriters headed by
Dillon, Read + Co&, to raise money to retire a similar amount held
by Gulf Oil Corp&.   Gulf's holdings could have been converted
into 2,700,877 shares of Union Oil common upon surrender of
debentures plus cash, according to Union. Under the new offering, only
$60 million in debentures are convertible into 923,076 common shares.
#DUE IN 1986# The new offering Tuesday consisted of $60 million
worth of 4-7/8 debentures, due June 1, 1986, at 100%, and $60
million of 4-1/2% convertible subordinated debentures due June 1, 1991,
at 100%. The convertible debentures are convertible into common
shares at $65 a share by June 1, 1966; $70 by 1971; $75 by 1976;
$80 by 1981; $85 by 1986, and $90 thereafter.
_NEW YORK(~AP)_- American Stock Exchange prices enjoyed a fairly
solid rise but here also trading dwindled. Volume was 1.23 million
shares, down from Monday's 1.58 million. Gains of 2-3/4 were posted
for Teleprompter and Republic Foil. Fairchild Camera and Kawecki
Chemical gained 2-1/2 each.
_QUESTION_- I bought 50 shares of Diversified Growth Stock Fund
on Oct& 23, 1959, and 50 more shares of the same mutual fund on
Feb& 8, 1960. Something has gone wrong some place. I am getting
dividends on only 50 shares. In other words, I am getting only half
the dividends I should. _ANSWER_- Write to the fund's custodian
bank- the First National Bank of Jersey City, N&J&.
That bank handles most of the paper work for Diversified Growth Stock
Fund, Fundamental Investors, Diversified Investment Fund and
Television-Electronics Fund.   The bank installed a magnetic
tape electronic data processing system to handle things. But it seems
that this "electronic brain" wasn't "programmed" correctly.
   This resulted in a great number of errors. And letters began
to come in to this column from irate shareholders.   I visited
the bank in March and wrote a story about the situation. At that time,
the people at the bank said they felt that they had the situation
in hand. They indicated that no new errors were being made and that all
old errors would be corrected
"within 60 days".   That 60-day
period is over and letters are still coming in from shareholders of
these four funds, complaining about mistakes in their accounts.
Maybe it's taking longer to get things squared away than the bankers
expected. Any shareholder of any of these funds who finds a mistake
in his account certainly should get in touch with the bank.   {Doyle
cannot undertake to reply to inquiries. He selects queries or
general interest to answer}.
_WASHINGTON (~AP)_- Alfred Hayes, president of the Federal
Reserve Bank of New York, said Tuesday "there is no present need
for far-reaching reforms" which would basically alter the international
financial system.   Hayes said that if a way can be found
to deal effectively with short-term capital movements between nations,
"there is no reason, in my judgment why the international financial
system cannot work satisfactorily for at least the foreseeable
future".
_WASHINGTON (~UPI)_- New York Central Railroad president Alfred
E& Perlman said Tuesday his line would face the threat of
bankruptcy if the Chesapeake + Ohio and Baltimore + Ohio Railroads
merge.   Perlman said bankruptcy would not be an immediate effect
of the merger, but could possibly be an ultimate effect.   The
railroad president made the statement in an interview as the Interstate
Commerce Commission opened Round 2 of its hearing into the ~C+~O's
request to control and then merge with the ~B+~O.
   "All these kind of things weaken us", Perlman said. #BAD
CONDITION# Board Chairman Howard Simpson of the Baltimore + Ohio
Railroad Co&, testified the ~B+~O was in its worst financial
condition since the depression years and badly needed the economic
lift it would get from consolidation with the Chesapeake + Ohio Railroad.
   "The financial situation of the Baltimore + Ohio,
has become precarious- much worse than at any time since the depression
of the 1930s", he told the hearing.   ~C+~O president
Walter J& Tuohy was summoned back for cross-examination by New
York Central attorneys before examiner John Bradford who is hearing
the complex case.   The New York Central also has asked the
~ICC to permit it to gain control of the ~B+~O.   Central
was rebuffed by the other two railroads in previous attempts to
make it a three-way merger. The proposed ~C+~O-~B+~O railroad
would make it the hemisphere's second largest.
_WASHINGTON (~AP)_- The government's short-term borrowing costs
rose with Tuesday weekly offering of Treasury bills. On $1.1 billion
of 90-day bills, the average yield was 2.325%. The rate a week
ago was 2.295%.
_WASHINGTON, MARCH 11 (~UPI)._- "Consumer uncertain about economic
conditions".   This was the chief reason for a so-so sales
outlook given by two-thirds of 56 builders polled by the National
Housing Center.   Other reasons mentioned by one-third or more
of the builders were "resistance to high interest rates, cost advantage
of buying over renting has narrowed, shelter market nearing saturation
and prospects unable to qualify". #INCREASE EXPECTED# The
poll was taken at the Center's annual builders' intentions conference.
It disclosed that the builders:   Expect their own production
volume, and presumably sales, to jump 30 percent in 1961.
   Look for home building nationally to advance less than 10 percent
this year from 1960's 1,257,7000 non-farm housing starts. The industry
has said 1960 was a poor year. Starts were down 20 percent from
1959.   Why the discrepancy between the builders' forecasts for
themselves and for the industry? #LEADERS OF INDUSTRY# The
reason, says the Housing Center, is that the builders invited to the
intentions conference "are generally among the more successful businessmen,
and usually do somewhat better than their fellow builders".
_ELBURN, ILL&_- Farm machinery dealer Bob Houtz tilts back
in a battered chair and tells of a sharp pickup in sales: "We've
sold four corn pickers since Labor Day and have good prospects for
10 more. We sold only four pickers all last year".   Gus Ehlers,
competitor of Mr& Houtz in this farm community, says his business
since August 1 is running 50% above a year earlier. "Before
then, my sales during much of the year had lagged behind 1960 by 20%",
he says.   Though the sales gains these two dealers are
experiencing are above average for their business, farm equipment sales
are climbing in most rural areas. Paradoxically, the sales rise is
due in large
measure to Government efforts to slash farm output. Although
the Administration's program cut crop acreage to the lowest point
since 1934, farmers, with the help of extra fertilizer and good weather,
are getting such high yields per acre that many are being forced
to buy new harvesting machines. Fields of corn and some other crops
in many cases are so dense that older equipment cannot handle them
efficiently.
The higher price supports provided by the new legislation,
together with rising prices for farm products, are pushing up farm income,
making it possible for farmers to afford the new machinery.
   Seven of the eight companies that turn out full lines of farm machinery
say sales by their dealers since the start of August have shown
gains averaging nearly 10% above last year. "In August our dealers
sold 13% more farm machinery than a year earlier and in September
retail sales were 14% higher than last year", says Mark V&
Keeler, farm equipment vice president of International Harvester
Co&. For the year to date, sales of the company's farm equipment
dealers still lag about 5% behind 1960. #TWO OF THREE REPORT GAINS#
Among individual dealers questioned in nearly a score of states,
two out of three report their sales since August 1 show sizable gains
from a year earlier, with the increases ranging from 5% to 50%.
Not all sections are showing an upswing, however; the drought-seared
North Central states are the most notable exceptions to the uptrend.
   The significance of the pickup in farm machinery sales extends
beyond the farm equipment industry. The demand for farm machinery
is regarded as a yardstick of rural buying generally. Farmers spend
more of their income on tractors and implements than on any other group
of products. More than 20 million people live on farms and they own
a fourth of the nation's trucks, buy more gasoline than any other
industry and provide a major market for home appliances, chemicals and
other products.   Farmers are so eager for new machinery that
they're haggling less over prices than they did a year ago, dealers
report.   "Farmers aren't as price conscious as last year so
we can get more money on a sale", says Jack Martin, who sells J&
I& Case tractors and implements in Sioux City, Iowa. "This
morning, we allowed a farmer $600 on the old picker he traded in on
a new $2,700 model. Last year, we probably would have given him $700
for a comparable machine". Mr& Martin sold 21 tractors in August;
in August of 1960, he sold seven. #DEALERS' STOCKS DOWN#
With dealer stocks of new equipment averaging about 25% below a year
ago, the affects of the rural recovery are being felt almost immediately
by the country's farm equipment manufacturers. For example, farm
equipment shipments of International Harvester in August climbed
about 5% above a year earlier, Mr& Keeler reports.   Tractor
production at Massey-Ferguson, Ltd&, of Toronto in July and
August rose to 2,418 units from 869 in the like period a year earlier,
says John Staiger, vice president.   With the lower dealer
inventories and the stepped-up demand some manufacturers believe there
could be shortages of some implements. Merritt D& Hill, Ford Motor
Co& vice president, says his company is starting to get calls
daily from dealers demanding immediate delivery or wanting earlier shipping
dates on orders for corn pickers.   Except for a few months
in late 1960 and early 1961, retail farm equipment sales have trailed
year-earlier levels since the latter part of 1959. The rise in sales
last winter was checked when the Government's new feed grain program
was adopted; the program resulted in a cutback of around 20%
in
planted acreage and, as a result, reduced the immediate need for machines.
   Nearly all of the farm equipment manufacturers and dealers
say the upturn in sales has resulted chiefly from the recent improvement
in crop prospects. Total farm output for this year is officially
forecast at 129% of the 1947-49 average, three points higher than
the July 1 estimate and exactly equal to the final figure for 1960.
   The Government also is aiding farmers' income prospects. Agriculture
Department economists estimate the Government this year will
hand farmers $1.4 billion in special subsidies and incentive payments,
well above the record $1.1 billion of 1958 and about double the $639
million of 1960. Price support loans may total another $1 billion
this year. With cash receipts from marketings expected to be slightly
above 1960, farmers' gross income is estimated at $39.5 billion, $1.5
billion above 1960's record high. Net income may reach $12.7 billion,
up $1 billion from 1960 and the highest since 1953. The Government
reported last week that the index of prices received by farmers
rose in the month ended at mid-September for the third consecutive month,
reaching 242% of the 1910-14 average compared with 237% at mid-July.
   {KENNEDY OPPOSES any widespread relief from a High Court
depletion ruling.}   The Supreme Court decision in mid-1960
was in the case of a company making sewer pipe from clay which it
mined. The company, in figuring its taxable earnings, deducted a percentage
of the revenue it received for its finished products. Such "depletion
allowances", in the form of percentages of sales are authorized
by tax law for specified raw materials producers using up their
assets. The High Court held that the company must apply its percentage
allowance to the value of the raw materials removed from the ground,
not to the revenue from finished products.   A measure passed
by Congress just before adjourning softened the ruling's impact, on
prior-year returns still under review, for clay-mining companies that
make brick and tile products. The measure allows such companies in
those years to apply their mineral depletion allowances to 50% of the
value of the finished products rather than the lower value of raw clay
alone.   <President Kennedy, in signing the relief measure
into law, stressed he regarded it as an exception. "My approval of
this bill should not be viewed as establishing a precedent for the enactment
of similar legislation for other mineral industries", the President
said>. #@# {CHARITABLE DEDUCTIONS come in for
closer scrutiny by the I&R&S&.}   The Service announced
that taxpayers making such claims may be called on to furnish a statement
from the recipient organization showing the date, purpose, amount
and other particulars of the contribution. Requests for substantiation,
the Service indicated, can be especially expected in cases where
it suspects the donor received some material benefit in return, such
as tickets to a show.   In such instance, revenuers stressed,
the deduction must be reduced by the value of the benefit received. #@#
{A RULE on the Federal deductibility of state taxes
is contested.}   A realty corporation in Louisiana owed no tax
under Federal law, on its gain from the sale of property disposed
of in line with a plan of liquidation. Louisiana, however, collected
an income tax on the profits from the sale. The corporation, in filing
its final Federal income return, claimed the state tax payment as a
deductible expense, as permitted under U&S& tax law.   The
Revenue Service disallowed the claim, invoking a law provision that
generally bars deductions
for expenses incurred in connection with what
it said was tax-exempt income. The Tax Court rejected this view.
It said the tax-freedom of the gain in this case stemmed not from the
exempt status of the income but from a special rule on corporate liquidations.
   <The Tax Court decision and a similar earlier finding
by the Ninth Circuit Court of Appeals challenges a year-old
I&R&S& ruling on the subject. The Service has not said what
its next step will be>. #@# {PEACE CORPS VOLUNTEERS}
are assured a tax benefit under the law creating the agency. It provides
that the $1,800 termination payment each cadet is to get, after
serving a two-year hitch without pay, will be spread over both years,
not taxed in its entirety at a possibly higher rate in the year received.#@#
{THE OWNER} of a public relations firm owed no
income tax on payments he received from a client company and "kicked
back" to the company's advertising manager, the Tax Court ruled.
The taxpayer testified that in order to retain the account he had
to pad his invoices and pay the excess to the manager. The Court upheld
the taxpayer's contention that these "kickbacks" were not his
income though they passed through his hands. The Court limited its
decision to the tax issue involved, commenting: "It is not our province
to pass judgment on the morality of the transaction". #@#
{A PORTABLE KEROSENE RANGE} designed for use aboard boats
is sold with a special railing to keep it from moving with the motion
of the vessel. The Revenue Service said the addition of the attachment
does not keep the range from coming under the Federal manufacturers'
excise tax on household-type appliances. #@# {HIRING
THE WIFE for one's company may win her tax-aided retirement income}.
   A spouse employed by a corporation her husband controls,
for example, may be entitled to distributions under the company's
pension plan as well as to her own Social Security coverage. She would
be taxed on the pensions when received, of course, but the company's
contributions would be tax-free.   A frequent pitfall in this
sort of arrangement, experts warn, is a tendency to pay the wife more
than her job is worth and to set aside an excessive amount for her
as retirement income. In that event, they note, the Revenue Service
might declare the pension plan is discriminatory and deny it tax privileges
under the law.   <Possible upshots: The company could
be denied a deduction for its pension payments, or those payments for
the wife and other employes could be ruled taxable to them in the year
made>. #@# {STATE BRIEFS:} Voters in four counties
containing and bordering Denver authorized the imposition of an additional
2% sales tax within that area. Colorado has a 2% sales
tax. Denver itself collects a 1% sales tax which is to be absorbed
in the higher area tax **h. The Washington state supreme court ruled
that the state's occupation tax applied to sales, made at cost to an
oil company, by a wholly-owned subsidiary set up to purchase certain
supplies without divulging the identity of the parent. The state's
occupation tax is computed on gross sales. The court held that the tax
applied to non-profit sales because the corporations realized economic
benefits by doing business as two separate entities.
_WASHINGTON_- Consumer spending edged down in April after rising
for two consecutive months, the Government reported.   The Commerce
Department said seasonally adjusted sales of retail stores dropped
to slightly under $18 billion in April, down 1% from the March
level of more than $18.2 billion. April sales also were 5% below
those of April last year, when volume reached a record for any month,
$18.9 billion (see chart on Page One).   The seasonal adjustment
takes into account such factors as Easter was on April 2 this
year, two weeks earlier than in 1960, and pre-Easter buying was pushed
into March.   Commerce Department officials were inclined to
explain the April sales decline as a reaction from a surge of consumer
buying in March. Adjusted sales that month were up a relatively
steep 2.5% from those of the month before, which in turn were slightly
higher than the January low of $17.8 billion.
   Greer Garson world-famous star of stage, screen and television,
will be honored for the high standard in tasteful sophisticated fashion
with which she has created a high standard in her profession.
   As a Neiman-Marcus award winner the titian-haired Miss Garson
is a personification of the individual look so important to fashion
this season. She will receive the 1961 "Oscar" at the 24th annual
Neiman-Marcus Exposition, Tuesday and Wednesday in the Grand
Ballroom of the Sheraton-Dallas Hotel. ## {THE ONLY WOMAN}
recipient, Miss Garson will receive the award with Ferdinando
Sarmi, creator of chic, beautiful women's fashions; Harry Rolnick,
president of the Byer-Rolnick Hat Corporation and designer
of men's hats; Sydney Wragge, creator of sophisticated casuals
for women and Roger Vivier, designer of Christian Dior shoes Paris,
France, whose squared toes and lowered heels have revolutionized
the shoe industry.   The silver and ebony plaques will be presented
at noon luncheons by Stanley Marcus, president of Neiman-Marcus,
Beneficiary of the proceeds from the two showings will be the Dallas
Society for Crippled Children Cerebral Palsy Treatment Center.
   The attractive Greer Garson, who loves beautiful clothes
and selects them as carefully as she does her professional roles, prefers
timeless classical designs. Occasionally she deserts the simple
and elegant for a fun piece simple because "It's unlike me". ##
{IN PRIVATE LIFE}, Miss Garson is Mrs& E& E&
Fogelson and on the go most of the time commuting from Dallas,
where
they maintain an apartment, to their California home in Los Angeles'
suburban Bel-Air to their ranch in Pecos, New Mexico. Therefore,
her wardrobe is largely mobile, to be packed at a moment's notice
and to shake out without a wrinkle.   Her creations in fashion
are from many designers because she doesn't want a complete wardrobe
from any one designer any more than she wants "all of her pictures
by one painter". ## {A FAVORITE} is Norman Norell,
however. She likes his classic chemise. Her favorite cocktail dress
is a Norell, a black and white organdy and silk jersey.   Irene
suits rate high because they are designed for her long-bodied silhouette.
She also likes the femininity
and charm of designs by Ceil Chapman
and Helen Rose.   Balenciaga is her favorite European
designer.   "I bought my first dress from him when I was still
a struggling young actress", she reminisces. "I like his clothes
for their drama and simplicity and appreciate the great impact he has
on fashion". ## {BLACK AND WHITE} is her favorite color
combination along with lively glowing pinks, reds, blues and greens.
   Of Scotch-Irish-Scandinavian descent, Greer Garson was
born in County Down, Ireland. Her mother was a Greer and her father's
family came from the Orkney Isles.   Reared in England,
she studied to be a teacher, earned several scholarships and was graduated
with honors from the University of London. She took postgraduate
work at the University of Grenoble in France and then returned
to London to work on market research with an advertising firm. ##
{HER ACTING} began with the Birmingham Repertory Company
and she soon became the toast of the West End. Among stage performances
was a starring role in "Golden Arrow" directed by Noel
Coward. It was during "Old Music" at the St& James Theater
that Hollywood's Louis B& Mayer spotted her.   After
signing a motion-picture contract, she came to America and had "Goodbye,
Mr& Chips" as her first assignment after a year's wait.
Other triumphs include "Random Harvest", "Madame Curie",
"Pride and Prejudice", "The Forsythe Saga" and "Mrs&
Miniver" (which won her the Academy Award in 1943). ## {HONORS}
that have come to Greer Garson are countless. Just this
April she was nominated for the seventh time for an Academy Award
for her portrayal of Eleanor Roosevelt in "Sunrise at Campobello".
She gave a fine portrayal of Auntie Mame on Broadway in 1958
and has appeared in live television from "Captain Brassbound's
Conversion" to "Camille". She is in Madame Tussard's Waxworks
in London, a princess of the Kiowa tribe and an honorary colonel
in many states.   She is adept at skeet shooting, trout fishing,
Afro-Cuban and Oriental dancing and Southwestern archaeology.
She now serves on the board of directors of the Dallas Symphony
Orchestra and the Dallas Theater Center and on the board of trustees
of the Dallas Museum of Fine Arts. She is state chairman for
the New Mexico Tuberculosis and Cancer Associations. Both Miss
Garson and her oilman-rancher husband are active supporters of Boys
Clubs of America and patrons of the vivid art and opera colony that
flourishes in New Mexico.
   Back in college, today's handsome Gander was the only male
member of a Texas Tech class on food. The pretty coeds must have ogled
him all day long- but he dutifully kept his eye on the gravy.
   Last October he gave a public speech in Washington, D&C&
entitled "Are Women Here to Stay"? So you can see that Gerald
G& Ramsey, director of ~SMU's food services, is not the
ordinary type of craven, women-trodden chef. He is apt to rear back
and claim his rights. ## {RAMSEY}, as ~SMU's food
wrangler, buys enough groceries to serve 32,000 meals a week. Tell
that to the little wife when she moans at the woman's burden!
   He also dishes up 3,000 snacks. And he operates three cafeterias
in the Student Center, along with McElvaney Dining Hall and the
athlete's tables.   Ramsey, 6-3, 195 and ruggedly slim, says,
"I can't remember when I didn't pester my mother to teach me
to cook". ## {HE WAS IN CHARGE} of the Hockaday School
meals from 1946 to 1950, before he moved to ~SMU. And you'll
notice that in both places, there are acres of charming young ladies
who with little effort spice up any chow line.   What does he feed
his ~SMU football mastodons at the training table?   "Mostly
meat and potatoes- they have to have that go-go-go without
getting too fat", says Ramsey. So he hides the mayonnaise. And to
keep athletes' stomachs from getting jumpy under physical duress,
he bans all highly flavored condiments. ## {WHAT DO} the
pretty ~SMU girls like on their plates?   "Pretty much
hamburger, hotdogs, steak and, at night, maybe pizza", says the handsome
food expert. "Unfortunately, there is still little demand for
broccoli and cauliflower".   Ramsey has stoked up Harry Truman,
Henry Cabot Lodge, the King of Morocco, Clement Atlee and
other shiny characters. Once four Tibetan monks, in their saffron robes,
filed through the cafeteria line.   "They aren't supposed
to look at women, you know", Ramsey recalled. "What with all
those pretty girls around, they had a hard time". #CHICKEN CADILLAC#
Use one 6-ounce chicken breast for each guest. Salt and pepper
each breast. Dip in melted butter and roll in flour. Place side by
side in a 2-inch deep baking pan. Bake slowly about one hour at 250-275
F& until lightly brown.   Add enough warmed cream, seasoned
to taste with onion juice, to about half cover the chicken breasts.
Bake slowly at least one-half hour longer.   While this is baking,
saute mushrooms, fresh or canned, in butter. Sprinkle over top
of chicken breasts. Serve each breast on a thin slice of slow-baked ham
and sprinkle with Thompson seedless grapes.   (Leave off the
ham and you call it Chicken Pontiac, says Ramsey.)
   Contemporary furniture that is neither Danish nor straight-line
modern but has sculptured pattern, many design facets, warmth, dignity
and an effect of utter comfort and livability.   That is the
goal of two new collections being introduced in Dallas this month.
   Though there has been some avant garde indication that contemporary
furniture might go back to the boxy look of the '20's and '40's,
two manufacturers chose to take the approach of the sophisticated,
but warm look in contemporary. These two, Heritage and Drexel,
chose too not to produce the exactly matching design for every piece,
but a collection of correlated designs, each of which could stand alone.
   The Heritage collection, to be shown by Sanger-Harris and
Anderson's Studio, has perhaps more different types of woods and
decorations than any one manufacturer ever assembled together at one
time. Called Perennian, to indicate its lasting, good today and tomorrow
quality, the collection truly avoids the monotony of identical pieces.
   Walnut, wormy chestnut, pecan, three varieties of burl,
hand-woven Philippine cane, ceramic tiles, marble are used to emphasize
the feeling of texture and of permanence, the furniture to fit into
rooms with tiled floors, brick or paneled walls, windows that bring
in the outdoors. It is a collection with a custom-design look, offering
simplicity with warmth, variety and vitality.   The Drexel collection,
called Composite, to be shown by Titche's offers a realistic
approach to decorating, a mature modern that is a variation of many
designs.   Rounded posts give a soft, sculptured look, paneled
doors have decorative burl panels or cane insets plus softening arches,
table tops are inlaid in Macassar ebony or acacia. A high-legged
buffet provides easy-to-reach serving, a cocktail table has small snack
tables tucked under each end, recessed arched panels decorate a 60-inch
long chest.   An interesting approach to the bedroom is presented,
with a young, basic, functional group of chests, dressers and
corner units and a canted headboard. The other bedroom has heavier styling,
door-fronted dressers with acacia panels, a poster bed or a bed
with arched acacia panels and matching mirror.   Colorful, bright
Eastman Chromspun fabrics, with the magenta, pink and white tones
predominating as well as golden shades are used with Composite. The
fabrics have Scotchgard finish to resist soil and wrinkles.
Design elements closely rooted to traditional forms but wearing a definite
contemporary label keynote Drexel's fall 1961 group, Composite.
The spider-leg pedestal table has a base finished in an ebony, to
set off the lustrous brown of the walnut top. See-through design of
the chairs combines both the nostalgic ladder back and an Oriental shoji
flavor. To bring warmth to the dining area, golden orange tones
are used in the fabrics.   Dignity and comfort, in a contemporary
manner, reflecting the best aspects of today's design, with substance
and maturity, keynote the Perennian collection from Heritage. Center
panel, hand-screened wood, actually is a back of one of the tall
bookcases. Mellow bronzy-green-gold fabrics and the gleam of copper
and hand-crafted ceramic accessories reiterate the mood as does the Alexander
Smith carpet in all wool loop pile.
   The Vagabonds are "on the road" again. Members are on their
way to Saledo, not by stage coach, but in air-conditioned cars.
   This coming weekend they have reserved the entire Stagecoach Inn
and adjoining country club, Saledo, for festivities. Invitations
have been extended to some Austin dignitaries including Gov& and
Mrs& Price Daniel.   Stagecoach Days is the theme for the
weekend on the Old Chisholm Trail. ## {THE GET-TOGETHER}
Friday night will be a banquet at the country club patio and pool,
and an orchestra will play for dancing.   Guests will wear costumes
typical of the Chisholm Trail Days. Ginghams and calico will
be popular dress for the women. The men will be in western attire,
including Stetsons and colored vests. ## {DECORATING}
the ballroom
will be the yellow rose of Texas, in tall bushes; bluebonnets
and stagecoach silhouettes. There will be a large drawing of a sunbonnet
girl with eyes that flash at the guests.   Mr& and Mrs&
Phil G& Abell are chairmen for the Saledo trip. Committee members
aiding them in planning the entertainment are ~Messrs and ~Mmes
Roy McKee, George McElyee, Jack Fanning, W& H& Roquemore
and Joe Darrow. ## {THE TRAVEL CLUB} is comprised of
75 fun-loving couples who have as their motto "Go Somewhere, Anywhere,
Everywhere". Their activities will be climaxed in the spring
of 1962 when they go to Europe.   In the past, the men and women
have chartered planes to Las Vegas and Jamaica, buses to Mineral
Wells and Kerrville and private railway coaches to Shreveport and
Galveston.   Four parties are given a year. Two of these are
in or near Dallas and the others away from the vicinity.   Serving
on the club's board are ~Mmes R& P& Anderson, president;
A& F& Schmalzried, secretary; W& H& Roquemore,
treasurer, and the following chairmen: ~Mmes McKee, publicity;
Lawrence B& Jones, yearbook, and Sam Laughlin, scrapbook.
   A cooky with caramel filling and chocolate frosting won $25,000
for a Minneapolis housewife in the 13th annual Pillsbury Bake-Off
Tuesday.   Mrs& Alice H& Reese, wife of an engineer and
mother of a 23-year-old son, was awarded the top prize at a luncheon
in the Beverly Hilton Hotel. Mrs& Reese entered 10 past bake-offs
before she got into the finals.   Second grand prize
of $5,000 went to Mrs& Clara L& Oliver for her Hawaiian coffee
ring, a rich yeast bread with coconut filling and vanilla glaze. #MOTHER
OF FIVE# Mrs& Oliver is mother of five children and wife
of a machinist. She lives in Wellsville, Mo&.   Mrs& Reese
baked her cookies for only the third time in the Bake-off finals.
And the third time was the charm.   She dreamed up the cooky recipe,
tried it, liked it and entered it in the contest. The second baking
was for photographing when told she was a finalist. The third time
was on the floor of the Beverly Hilton ballroom and for the critical
eyes and tongues of judges.
   Mr& and Mrs& Joseph R& Bolker will give a dinner
on Friday at their home in Beverly Hills to honor Mrs& Norman Chandler,
chairman of the Music Center Building Fund Committee, and
Mr& Chandler.   Mr& Bolker heads a group within the building
and development industry to raise funds in support of this cultural
center for the performing arts.   A feature of the party will
be a presentation by Welton Becket, center architect, of color slides
and renderings of the three-building complex. #FOLIAGE WILL GLOW
AT FORMAL FALL PARTY# Fall foliage and flowers will decorate Los
Angeles Country Club for the annual formal party Saturday evening.
More than 200 are expected at the autumn event which is matched in
the spring.   Among those with reservations are Messrs& and
Mmes& William A& Thompson, Van Cott Niven, A& B& Cox,
David Bricker, Samuel Perry and Robert D& Stetson.
Others are Drs& and Mmes& Alfred Robbins, and J& Lafe Ludwig
and Gen& and Mrs& Leroy Watson. #GUESTS FROM ACROSS U&S&
HONOR DR& SWIM# When Dr& W& A& Swim celebrated his
75th birthday at the Wilshire Country Club, guests came by chartered
plane from all over the country.   A flight originating in
Florida picked up guests on the East Coast and Midwest and a plane
left from Seattle taking on passengers at West Coast points.
   Cocktails and a buffet supper were served to more than 100 persons
who had known Dr& Swim when he practiced in Los Angeles. He started
practice in 1917, and served on the State Board of Medical Examiners.
   Giving up the violin opened a whole new career for Ilona Schmidl-Seeberg,
a tiny Hungarian who Fritz Kreisler had predicted would
have a promising career on the concert stage.   A heart attack
when she was barely 20 put an end to the 10-hour daily practicing.
She put the violin away and took out some linen, needles and yarn to
while away the long, idle days in Budapest.   Now her modern tapestries
have been exhibited on two continents and, at 26, she feels she
is on the threshold of a whole new life in Los Angeles.   Her
days as an art student at the University of Budapest came to a sudden
end during the Hungarian uprisings in 1957 and she and her husband
Stephen fled to Vienna.   There they continued their studies
at the university, she in art, he in architecture. And there she had
her first showing of tapestry work.
   There's a lot of talk about the problem of education in America
today. What most people don't seem to realize, if they aren't
tied up with the thing as I am, is that 90% of the problem is transportation.
   I never dreamed of the logistical difficulties involved
until, at long last, both of my boys got squeezed into high school.
It seems like only last year that we watched them set out up the
hill hand in hand on a rainy day in their yellow raincoats to finger-paint
at the grammar school.   Getting to and from school was no
problem. They either walked or were driven. #@# Now they go to
a high school that is two miles away. One might think the problem would
be similar. They could walk, ride on a bus or be driven.
It's much more complex than that. Generally, they go to school with
a girl named Gloriana, who lives down the block, and has a car.
   This is a way of getting to school, but, I understand, it entails
a certain loss of social status. A young man doesn't like to be driven
up in front of a school in a car driven by a girl who isn't even
in a higher class than he is, and is also a girl.   "Why don't
you walk to school then"? I suggested. "My father walked,
through two miles of snow, in Illinois".   "Did you"?
I was asked.   "No", I said, "I didn't happen to grow
up in Illinois".   I explained, however, that I had my share
of hardship in making my daily pilgrimage to the feet of wisdom. #@#
I had to ride a streetcar two miles. Sometimes the streetcar
was late. Sometimes there weren't even any seats. I had to stand
up, with the ladies. Sometimes I got on the wrong car and didn't get
to school at all, but wound up at the ocean, or some other dismal place,
and had to spend the day there.   I've tried to compromise
by letting them take the little car now and then. When they do that
my wife has to drive me to work in the big car. She has to have at
least one car herself. I feel a certain loss of status when I am driven
up in front of work in a car driven by my wife, who is only a woman.
   Even that isn't satisfactory. If they have to take any car,
they'd rather take the big one. They say that when they take a
car, Gloriana doesn't take her car, but rides with them. But when
Gloriana rides with them they also have to take the two girls who usually
ride with her, so the little car isn't big enough. #@# The
logic of that is impeccable, of course, except that I feel like a
fool being driven up to work in a little car, by my wife, when everybody
knows I have a big car and am capable of driving myself.   The
solution, naturally, is the bus. However, it's a half-mile walk
down a steep hill from our house to the bus, and it's too hard on my
legs.   My wife could drive us down the hill and we could all
walk
from there. But that's hardly realistic.   Nobody walks any
more but crackpots and Harry Truman, and he's already got an education.
   Advance publicity on the Los Angeles Blue Book does not mention
names dropped as did the notices for the New York Social Register
which made news last week.   Published annually by William
Hord Richardson, the 1962 edition, subtitled Society Register of
Southern California, is scheduled to arrive with Monday morning's
postman.   Publisher Richardson has updated the Blue Book "but
it still remains the compact reference book used by so many for
those ever-changing telephone numbers, addresses, other residences,
club
affiliations and marriages". #STARS FOR MARRIAGE# Stars throughout
the volume denote dates of marriages during the past year. Last
two to be added before the book went to press were the marriages of Meredith
Jane Cooper, daughter of the Grant B& Coopers, to Robert
Knox Worrell, and of Mary Alice Ghormley to Willard Pen Tudor.
   Others are Carla Ruth Craig to Dan McFarland Chandler
Jr&;
Joanne Curry, daughter of the Ellsworth Currys, to James
Hartley Gregg, and Valerie Smith to James McAlister Duque.
   Also noted are the marriages of Elizabeth Browning, daughter
of the George L& Brownings, to Austin C& Smith Jr&;
Cynthia
Flower, daughter of the Ludlow Flowers Jr&, to Todd Huntington,
son of the David Huntingtons. #PASADENA LISTINGS# Listed
as newly wed in the Pasadena section of the new book are Mr& and Mrs&
Samuel Moody Haskins /3,. She is the former Judy Chapman,
daughter of John S& Chapman of this city. The young couple live
in Pasadena. Another marriage of note is that of Jane McAlester
and William Louis Pfau.   Changes in address are noted.
   For instance, the Edwin Pauleys Jr&, formerly of Chantilly
Rd&, are now at home on North Arden Dr& in Beverly Hills.
   Mr& and Mrs& Robert Moulton now live on Wilshire and the
Franklin Moultons on S& Windsor Blvd&. The Richard Beesemyers,
formerly of Connecticut, have returned to Southern California
and are now residing on South Arden Blvd&. But the Raoul Esnards
have exchanged their residence in Southern California for Mexico
City. #MORE NEW ADDRESSES# Judge and Mrs& Julian Hazard
are now at Laguna Beach, while the Frank Wangemans have moved from
Beverly Hills to New York, where he is general manager of the Waldorf-Astoria
Hotel. And Lawrence Chase, son of the Ransom Chases,
is listed at his new address in Oxford, Eng&.   Others
listed at new addresses are the Richard T& Olerichs, the Joseph
Aderholds Jr&, the Henri de la Chapelles, the John Berteros and
Dr& and Mrs& Egerton Crispin, the John Armisteads, the Allen
Chases, the Howard Lockies, the Thomas Lockies, and Anthony
Longinotti.   Newcomers of social note from other parts of the
country are the Ray Carbones, formerly of Panama; the Geddes MacGregors,
formerly of Scotland, and Mr& and Mrs& Werner H&
Althaus, formerly of Switzerland.
   HERE'S an idea for a child's room that is easy to execute
and is completely charming, using puppets for lamp bases. Most children
love the animated puppet faces and their flexible bodies, and
they prefer to see them as though the puppets were in action, rather than
put away in boxes. Displayed as lamps, the puppets delight the children
and are decorative accent.   To create such a lamp, order
a wired pedestal from any lamp shop. Measure the puppet to determine
the height of the light socket, allowing three to four inches above the
puppet's head. Make sure that the metal tube through which the wire
passes is in the shape of an inverted "~L", the foot of the
"~L" about three inches long, so that the puppet can hang directly
under the light. #PULLING STRINGS# Using the strings that manipulate
the puppet, suspend him from the light fixture by tying the
strings to the lamp base. In this way, you can arrange his legs and arms
in any desired position, with feet, or one foot, barely resting on
the pedestal. If the puppets are of uniform size, you can change them
in accord with your child's whims.   Although a straight drum
shade would be adequate and sufficiently neutral that the puppets could
be changed without disharmony, it is far more fun to create shades
in the gay spirit of a child's playtime. Those illustrated are reminiscent
of a circus top or a merry-go-round. The scalloped edge is particularly
appealing.
   TODAY'S trend toward furniture designs from America's
past is teaching home-owners and decorators a renewed respect for the
shrewd cabinetmakers of our Colonial era.   A generation ago
there were plenty of people who appreciated antiques and fine reproductions.
In the background lurked the feeling, however, that these pieces,
beautiful as they were, lacked the utilitarian touch. So junior's
bedroom was usually tricked out with heavy, nondescript pieces that
supposedly could take the "hard knocks", while the fine secretary
was relegated to the parlor where it was for show only.   This
isn't true of the many homemakers of the 1960's, according to decorator
consultant, Leland Alden.   Housewives are finding literally
hundreds of ways of getting the maximum use out of traditional designs,
says Mr& Alden and they are doing it largely because Colonial
craftsmen had "an innate sense of the practical". #SOLID INVESTMENT#
There are a number of reasons why the Eighteenth Century
designer had to develop "down to earth" designs- or go out of
business.
   {HOTEL ESCAPE'S} Bonanza room has a real bonanza in
its new attraction, the versatile "Kings /4, Plus Two".
   This is the strongest act to hit the area in a long while- a well
integrated, fast moving outfit specializing in skits, vocals, comedy
and instrumentals all of it distinctly displaying the pro touch.
   {Show spotlights the Kings- George Worth, Bill Kay, Frank
Ciciulla and Gene Wilson, flanked by Dave Grossman and Ron Stevens}.
   The plus two remain at a fixed position with drums
and guitar but the quartet covers the stage with a batch of instruments
ranging from tuba to tambourine, and the beat is solid.   {In
the comedy division, the Kings simply augmenting talent and imagination
with a few props. Net result is some crazy-wonderful nonsense, part
of which can be classed as pure slapstick}.   Kings /4,
have rated as a popular act in Vegas and Western nightclubs. If they
can't chalk up BIG business here then let's stop this noise
about how hip we are, and stick to our community singing, @ #ELSEWHERE#
{ANDY BARTHA} and his trio have booked into Oceania Lounge
**h the Cumbancheros, Latin combo, open Tuesday at the Four O'Clock
Club **h "Flip" Phillips for a return engagement at Fireside
Steak Ranch Wednesday; same date, Johnny LaSalle trio to
the Jolly Roger **h Dick Carroll and his accordion (which we now
refer to as "Freida") held over at Bahia Cabana where "Sir"
Judson Smith brings in his calypso capers Oct& 13.   {Johnny
Leighton picked up some new numbers out in Texas which he's
springing on the ringsiders in the Rum House at Galt Ocean Mile
Hotel}.   "Skip" Hovarter back in town from a summer in
the Reno-Lake Tahoe area where he ran into Rusty Warren, Kay Martin,
the Marskmen and Tune Toppers- all pulling good biz, he says.
@ #WE LIKE FIKE# {AL FIKE}, an ex-schoolteacher from
Colorado, is currently pursuing the three ~R's- rhythm, reminiscence
and repartee- in a return class session at the Trade Winds
Hotel.   Al has added some sidemen to the act which makes for
a smoother operation but it's substantially the same format heard
last spring.   {Newcomers are Ernie Kemm on piano, Wes Robbins,
bass and trumpet, and Jack Kelly on drums. It's a solid show
but, except for some interim keyboarding by Ernie, it's Al's
all the way}.   Maestro's biggest stock in trade is his personality,
and ability to establish a warm rapport with his audience. He
skips around from jazz, to blues to boogie- accompanying himself on
piano and frequently pulling the customers in on the act.   This
is a bouncy show which may get a little too frantic at times, but is
nevertheless worth your appraisal. #NEW OWNERS# {CAFE SOCIETY}
opens formally this afternoon under its new ownership. George
Kissak is the bossman; Terry Barnes has been named manager.
   Spot retains the same decor although crystal chandeliers have been
installed above the terrace dining area, and the kitchen has undergone
a remodeling job.   {Latter domain, under the guidance of
Chef Tom Yokel, will specialize in steaks, chops, chicken and prime
beef as well as Tom's favorite dish, stuffed shrimp}.   Bandstand
features Hal DeCicco, pianist, for both dinner hour and the
late trade. The Tic-Tac-Toe trio is the club's new show group
which also plays for dancing. @ #HERE AND THERE# {HERBERT
HEILMAN} in
town for a day. Hubie's restaurant activities up in
Lorain, Ohio, may preclude his return here until after Oct& 20,
date set for reopening the Heilman Restaurant on Sunman Restaurant
on Sunrise **h   {Louise Franklin cornering the gift shop
market in Lauderdale. Vivacious redhead debuts another shop, her sixth,
in the Governor's Club Hotel this week} **h   Sunday
New Orleans brunches continue at the Trade Winds but the daily French
buffets have been called off **h   Mackey Airline's new
Sunshine Inn at Bimini set to open some time this month, according
to Hank Johnson **h   Student Prince Lounge on Atlantic
Blvd& plotting a month-long "festival" throughout October, with
special features **h   {Don Drinkhouse of Pal's Restaurant
planning a reunion with the Miami Playboy Club's pianist, Julian
Gould. Two were in the same band 18 years ago; Don, who played
drums, hasn't seen his chum since} **h   Steak House has
such a run on beer to wash down that Mexican food "Tex" Burgess
had to call the draft man twice in one day. (Which is understandable-
if you've ever sampled the exotic, peppery fare.) @ #FACES
IN PLACES# {PUALANI} and Randy Avon, Dave Searles, George
(Papa) Gill, Al Bandish, Jim Morgart, Bob Neil at the Mouse
trap **h Billy and Jean Moffett at the Rickshaw **h Bea Morley,
Jimmy Fazio, Jim O'Hare, Ralph Michaels, Bill and Evelyn
Perry at the Escape. @ #MURPHY HONORS# {HEAR THAT}
Patricia Murphy flies up to St& John's Newfoundland, next Sunday
to attend the government's special ceremonies at Memorial University
honoring distinguished sons and daughters of the island province.
   Miss Murphy was born in Placentia, Newfoundland. Her
invitation from Premier Joseph Smallwood is reported to be the only
one extended to a woman.
_FORT LAUDERDALE_- The first in a series of five productions will
be held in War Memorial Auditorium Thursday, Oct& 26.
   "Le Theatre D'Art Du Ballet", of Monte Carlo, will present
a program of four ballets including "Francesca Da Rimini".
Performers include a company of 46 dancers and a symphony orchestra.
   {The series of ballets is sponsored by the Milenoff Ballet
Foundation, Inc&, a non-profit foundation with headquarters in Coral
Gables}.   Also set for appearances at the auditorium this
season are: "American Ballet Theatre" on Jan& 27, "Ximenez-Vargas
Ballet Espagnol" on Feb& 2; Jorge Bolet, pianist,
on Feb& 23; and "Dancers of Bali" on March 8.
_HOLLYWOOD_- A Southeast Library Workshop will be held here
Oct& 9, conducted by Mrs& Gretchen Schenk of Summerdale, Ala&,
author, lecturer and library leader.   The workshop will begin
at 10 a&m& and end at 3 p&m& in the auditorium of the Library
and Fine Arts Building. There is no registration fee but there
will be a charge of $2.50 for the luncheon to be held in the library
and fine arts building.   Anyone interested in attending the meeting
may have reservations with Mrs& John Whelan at the Hollywood
Public Library.   At the workshop, Mrs& Schenk will discuss
"the board and the staff, librarian-board relationships, personnel
policies, how good is our librarian and staff, how good am I as a
library board member and how good is our library".   Other workshops
will be in Tallahassee Oct& 5; Jacksonville, Oct& 6;
Orlando, Oct& 10; Plant City Oct& 11.
_FORT LAUDERDALE_- A series of high school assemblies to acquaint
junior and senior students with the Junior Achievement program begins
at St& Thomas Aquinas Monday.   Subsequent assemblies
will be held at Stranahan High School Tuesday, at Pompano Beach
High Wednesday, and at Fort Lauderdale high Thursday.   The
business education program operates with the cooperation of local high
schools and business firms.
   Is there anything a frustrated individual can do about Communism's
growing threat on our doorstep and around the world?
More than 300 teenagers last Sunday proved there is and as many more
are expected to prove it again for Jim Kern and his wife Lynn from
4 to 8 p&m& Sunday at First Presbyterian Church.   At that
time the second half of the Christian Youth Crusade against Communism
will be staged. {A young real estate salesman, Kern first
got seriously interested in the problems posed by Communism when in the
Navy Air Force. He was particularly struck by a course on Communist
brainwashing}.   Kern began reading a lot about the history
and philosophy of Communism, but never felt there was anything
he,
as an individual, could do about it.   When he attended the Christian
Anti-Communist Crusade school here about six months ago,
Jim became convinced that an individual can do something constructive
in the ideological battle and set out to do it.   The best approach,
he figured, was to try to influence young people like the high
schoolers he and his wife serve as advisors at First Presbyterian Church.
   {And he wanted to be careful that the kids not only learn
about Communist but also about what he feels is the only antidote-
a Biblically strong Christianity}.   So the Christian
Youth Crusade against Communisn developed and more than 300 top teenagers
and 65 adult advisers from Presbyterian churches of the area sat
enthralled at the four-hour program.   This Sunday those attending
the second session will hear a lecture by Kern on the world situation;
a review of the philosophy of Communist leaders by Ted Slack,
another real estate agent who became interested as a philosophy
major at the University of Miami; and talks on how their Christian
faith can guide them in learning about and fighting Communism during
high school and college days, by Ted Place, director of Greater Miami
Youth for Christ, and Jon Braun, director of Campus Crusade
for Christ.   {The second half of the film "Communism on
the Map" and the movie "Operation Abolition" also will be
shown}.
   Response to the program has been so encouraging, Kern
said, that a city-wide youth school at Dade County Auditorium may be
set up soon.   And to encourage other churches to try their own
programs, Kern said this Sunday's sessions- including the free
dinner- will be open to anyone who makes reservations.
   The need for and the way to achieve a Christian home will be
stressed in special services marking National Christian Family Week
in Miami area churches next week.   Of particular meaning to
the Charles MacWhorter family, 3181 ~SW 24th Ter&, will be the
Family Dedication Service planned for 10:50 a&m& Sunday {at
First Christian Church}.   It will be the second time
the assistant manager of a Coral Gables restaurant and his wife have
taken part in the twice-a-year ceremonies for families with new babies.
   The first one, two years ago, changed the routine of their
home life.   {"When you stand up in public and take vows to
strive to set an example before your children and to teach them the
fundamentals of the Christian faith, you strive a little harder to uphold
those vows", explains the slender vice president of the young couples
Sunday school class}.   Until that first dedication service,
he and Lois felt their children were too young to take part in
any religious life at home. They have five daughters- Coral Lee,
5, Glenda Rae, 4, Pamela, 3, Karen, 2, and Shari, five months.
   But after that service, they decided to try to let the girls say
grace at the table, have bedtime prayers, and Bible stories. To their
surprise, the children all were eager and quite able to take part.
Even the two-year-old feels miffed if the family has a prayer-time without
her. #@# {DADE'S CHIEF} probation officer, Jack
Blanton, will lead a discussion on "The Changes in the American
Family" at 7:30 p&m& Sunday at {Christ Lutheran Church}.
#@# {MR& AND MRS&} George Treadwell will
be honored at a Family Week supper and program at 6 p&m& Sunday
at {Trinity Methodist Church}. He is the sexton of the church.
   A family worship service will follow the program at 7:45
p&m&. #@# {THE OUTSTANDING} family of {Central
Nazarene Church} will be picked by ballot from among eight families
during the 10:45 a&m& Sunday service marking National Family
Week. #@# {EVERY} family of {Riviera Presbyterian
Church} has been asked to read the Bible and pray together daily
during National Christian Family Week and to undertake one project
in which all members of the family participate.   {To start
the week of special programs at the church, the Rev& John D&
Henderson will preach on "A Successful Marriage" at 9:40 and
11 a&m& Sunday. New officers of the church will be ordained and
installed at the 7:30 p& m& service}.   A father and son
dinner sponsored by the Men's Club will be held at 6:15 p&m&
Monday and the annual church picnic at 4 p&m& next Saturday.
   The week will end with the Rev& Mr& Henderson preaching on
"The Marriage Altar" at 7:30 p&m& Sunday, May 14.
   The resignation of the Rev& Warren I& Densmore, headmaster
of St& Stephen's Episcopal Day School in Coconut Grove,
becomes effective July 15.
   Enrique Jorda, conductor and musical director of the San Francisco
Symphony, will fulfill two more guest conducting engagements
in Europe before returning home to open the symphony's Golden Anniversary
season, it was announced.   The guest assignments are
scheduled
for November 14 and 18, with the Orchestra Sinfonica Siciliana
in Palermo and the Orchestra of Radio Cologne. The season in San
Francisco will open with a special Gala Concert on November 22.
   During his five-month visit abroad, Jorda recently conducted
the Orchestre Philharmonique de Bordeau in France, and the Santa
Cecilia Orchestra in Rome.   In announcing Jorda's return,
the orchestra also announced that the sale of single tickets for the
50th anniversary season will start at the Sherman Clay box office on
Wednesday.   Guest performers and conductors during the coming
season will include many renowned artists who began their careers playing
with the orchestra, including violinists Yehudi Menuhin, Isaac
Stern, Ruggiero Ricci and David Abel; pianists Leon Fleisher,
Ruth Slenczynka and Stephen Bishop and conductor Earl Bernard
Murray.
   The Leningrad Kirov Ballet, which opened a series of performances
Friday night at the Opera House, is, I think, the finest "classical"
ballet company I have ever seen, and the production of
the Petipa-Tschaikowsky "Sleeping Beauty" with which it began
the series is incomparably the finest I have ever had the pleasure of
witnessing.   This work is no favorite of mine. I am prepared
to demonstrate at an ytime that it represents the spirit of Imperial
Russia in its most vulgar, infantile, and reactionary aspect; that
its persistent use by ballet companies of the Soviet regime indicates
that that old spirit is just as stultifying alive today as it ever was;
that its presentation in this country is part of a capitalist plot
to boobify the American people; that its choreography is undistinguished
and its score a shapeless assemblage of self-plagiarisms. All
of this is true and all of it is totally meaningless in the face of
the Kirov's utterly captivating presentation. #PRECISE# The reasons
for this enchantment are numerous, but most of them end in "ova",
"eva", or "aya". In other words, no merely male creature
can resist that corps de ballet. It seems to have been chosen exclusively
from the winners of beauty contests- Miss Omsk, Miss Pinsk,
Miss Stalingr **h oops, skip it.   These qualities alone,
however, would not account for their success, and it took me a while to
discover the crowning virtue that completes this company's collective
personality. It is a kind of friendliness and frankness of address
toward the audience which we have been led to believe was peculiar to
the American ballet. Oh-the-pain-of-it, that convention of Russian
ballet whereby the girls convey the idea that they are all the daughters
of impoverished Grand Dukes driven to thestage out of filial piety,
is totally absent from the Kirov. This is all the more remarkable
because the Kirov is to ballet what Senator Goldwater is to American
politics. But, obviously, at least some things have changed for
the better in Russia so far as the ballet is concerned.   Irina
Kolpakova, the Princess Aurora of Friday's performance, would
be a change for the better anywhere, at any time, no matter who had had
the role before. She is the most beautiful thing you ever laid eyes
on, and her dancing has a feminine suavity, lightness, sparkle, and refinement
which are simply incomparable. #HIT# Alla Sizova, who
seems to have made a special hit in the East, was delightful as the lady
Bluebird and her partner, Yuri Soloviev, was wonderfully
virile,
acrobatic, and poetic all at the same time, in a tradition not unlike
that of Nijinsky. Vladilen Semenov, a fine "danseur noble";
Konstantin Shatilov, a great character dancer; and Inna Zubkovskaya,
an excellent Lilac Fairy, were other outstanding members of the
cast, but every member of the cast was magnificent.   The production,
designed by Simon Virsaladze, was completely traditional but
traditional in the right way. It was done with great taste, was big and
spacious, sumptuous as the dreams of any peasant in its courtly costumes,
but sumptuous in a muted, pastel-like style, with rich, quiet harmonies
of color between the costumes themselves and between the costumes
and the scenery.   Evegeni Dubovskoi conducted an exceptionally
large orchestra, one containing excellent soloists- the violin
solos by the concertmaster, Guy Lumia, were especially fine- but one
in which the core of traveling players and the body of men added locally
had not had time to achieve much unity.
   Mail orders are now being received for the series of concerts
to be given this season under the auspices of the San Francisco Chamber
Music Society.   The season will open at the new Hall of
Flowers in Golden Gate Park on November 20 at 8:30 p& m& with
a concert by the Mills Chamber Players.   Sustaining members
may sign up at $25 for the ten-concert season; annual members
may
attend for $16. Participating members may attend five of the concerts
for $9 (not all ten concerts as was erroneously announced earlier in The
Chronicle).   Mail orders for the season and orders for single
tickets at $2, may be addressed to the society, 1044 Chestnut street,
San Francisco 9.
   San Francisco firemen busied themselves last week with their
annual voluntary task of fixing up toys for distribution to needy children.
   Fire Fighters Local 798, which is sponsoring the toy program
for the 12th straight year, issued a call for San Franciscans
to turn in discarded toys, which will be repaired by off-duty firemen.
   Toys will not be collected at firehouses this year. They will
be accepted at all branches of the Bay View Federal Savings and
Loan Association, at a collection center in the center of the Stonestown
mall, and at the Junior Museum, 16th street and Roosevelt way.
   From the collection centers, toys will be taken to a warehouse
at 198 Second street, where they will be repaired and made ready
for distribution.   Any needy family living in San Francisco can
obtain toys by writing to Christmas Toys, 676 Howard street, San
Francisco 5, and listing the parent's name and address and the age
and sex of each child in the family between the ages of 1 and 12. Requests
must be mailed in by December 5.
Famed cellist Pablo Casals took his instrument to the East Room of
the White House yesterday and charmed the staff with a two-hour rehearsal.
He was getting the feel of the room for a concert tomorrow night
for Puerto Rico Governor Luis Munoz Marin. President Kennedy's
invitation to the Spanish-born master said, "We feel your
performance as one of the world's greatest artists would lend distinction
to the entertainment of our guests".
   FOR A GOOD MANY SEASONS I've been looking at the naughty
stuff on television, so the other night I thought I ought to see
how immorality is doing on the other side of the fence in movies. After
all, this year's movies are next year's television shows.
   So I went to see "La Dolce Vita".   <It has been billed
as a towering monument to immorality. All the sins of ancient Rome
are said to be collected into this three-hour film. If that's
all the Romans did, it's a surprise to me that Rome fell>.
After television, "La Dolce Vita" seems as harmless as a Gray
Line tour of North Beach at night. I cannot imagine a single scene
that isn't done in a far naughtier manner on ~TV every week.
   I believe ~TV watchers will be bored.   <"La Dolce
Vita" has none of the senseless brutality or sadism of the average
~TV Western. Week in, week out, there is more sex to be seen
in "The Adventures of Ozzie and Harriet". There is more decadence
on "77 Sunset Strip". There are more obvious nymphomaniacs
on any private-eye series>. #@# {IN ANOTHER RESPECT},
television viewers will feel right at home because most of the actors
are unknowns. With the exception of Lex Barker and Anita Ekberg,
the credits are as unfamiliar as you'll find on the Robert Herridge
Theater.   Most of the emphasis has been placed on a "wild
party" at a seaside villa. Producer Fellini should have looked at
some of the old silent films where they really had {PARTIES}!
The Dolce Vita get-together boasted a strip tease (carried as
far as a black slip); a lady drunk on her hands and knees who carries
the hero around on her back while he throws pillow feathers in her
face; a frigid beauty, and three silly fairies.   Put them all
together and they spell out the only four-letter word I can think of:
dull.   <Apparently Fellini caught the crowd when its parties
had begun to pall. What a swinging group they must have been when
they first started entertaining!> #@# {AS A MORAL SHOCKER}
it is a dud. But this doesn't detract from its merit as an
interesting, if not great, film. The Chronicle's Paine Knickerbocker
summed it up neatly:   "This is a long picture and a controversial
one, but basically it is a moral, enthralling and heartbreaking
description of humans who have become unlinked from life as perhaps
Rome has from her traditional political, cultural and religious
glories".   <And when they sell it to television in a couple
of years, it can be shown without editing>. #@# TONIGHT
Atlantic Monthly editor Edward Weeks moderates a round table of four
Russian writers in a discussion of Soviet literature. Among the
subjects discussed will be Russian restrictions on poets and writers
in the ~USSR (Channel 9 at 9:30) **h Person to Person ventilates
the home lives of Johnny Mercer and Joan Collins- both in
Southern California (Channel 5 at 10:30) **h ~KQED Summer
Music Festival features a live concert by the Capello de Musica (Channel
9 at 8:30).   ~NBC plans a new series of three long
programs exploring America's scientific plans titled "Threshold",
to start in the fall **h. "Science in Action", San Francisco's
venerable television program, will be seen in Hong Kong this
fall in four languages: Mandarin, Cantonese, Chiuchow and English,
according to a tip from Dr& Robert C& Miller. <And you
think>
YOU <have language problems>.
   THE WEEK WENT along briskly enough. I bought a new little
foreign bomb. It is a British bomb. Very austere yet racy.
   It is very chic to drive foreign cars. With a foreign car you must
wear a cap- it has a leather band in the back. You must also wear
a car coat.   The wardrobe for a foreign bomb is a little expensive.
But we couldn't really get along without it. #@# "WHERE
DO YOU put the lighter fluid, ha, ha"? asked the gas station
man. The present crop of small cars is enriching American humor.
   Gas station people are very debonair about small cars.
When I drove a car with tail fins, I had plenty status at the wind-and-water
oases. My car gulped 20 gallons without even wiping its mouth.
   This excellent foreign bomb takes only six.   When
I had my big job with the double headlights and yards of chrome, the
gas people were happy to see me.   "<Tires> OK? <Check
the oil and water, sir?>"   They polished the windshield.
They had a loving touch. #@# THE MAN STUCK the nozzle
in the gas tank. "What kind of car is it"? he asked gloomily.
   "It is a British Austin, the smallest they make".
"Get much mileage"?   "About 35".   The gas station
man sighed unhappily.   "What I always say is what if
somebody clobbers you in a little car like that? Crunch, that's all
she wrote".   "I will die rich".   "That will be
$1.80", said the gas station man. "The windshield looks pretty
clean". #@# AH, THE FAIR-WEATHER friends of yesteryear!
When I wheeled about, finned fore and aft, I was the darling of the
doormen. Dollar bills skidded off my hands and they tipped their caps
politely.   With a small bomb, I tuck it between Cadillacs.
(The last doorman that saw me do that should calm himself. High
blood pressure can get the best of any of us.)
   AT LAST the White House is going to get some much-copied
furniture by that master American craftsman, Duncan Phyfe, whose
designs were snubbed in his lifetime when the U& S& Presidents
of the 19th Century sent abroad for their furnishings.   The American
Institute of Decorators has acquired a rare complete set of
sofas
and chairs which are to be placed in the Executive Mansion's library.
The suite has been in the same family since the early 1800's.
The gift is being presented by "heirs and descendants of the Rutherford
family of New Jersey, whose famous estate,
"Tranquility",
was located near the Duncan Phyfe workshop at Andover, N& J&.
   Authenticated pieces of Duncan Phyfe furniture are uncommon,
although millions of American homes today display pieces patterned
after the style trends he set 150 years ago. This acquisition is
a
matched, perfect set- consisting of two sofas six feet long, plus six
sidechairs and two armchairs.   THE ~AID HAS undertaken
the redecoration of the White House library as a project in
connection with the work being done by First Lady Jacqueline Kennedy's
Fine Arts Advisory Committee to secure antiques for the presidential
home. It is the ~AID's intention to create in the
library "a miniature museum of Americana" before completed refurbishing
is unveiled early this fall.   The room will also feature
another rarity many antiquarians would consider more important than the
Duncan Phyfe furniture. The ~AID has found a mantlepiece attributed
to Samuel McIntyre of Salem, Mass&, an architect and woodcarver
who competed for the designing of the Capitol here in 1792.
   The mantel was found in a recently demolished Salem house and
is being fitted over the White House library fireplace. It will be
painted to match the paneling in the room.   The ~AID committee's
chairman in charge of the redecoration, Mrs& Henry Francis
Lenygon, was in town yesterday to consult with White House staff
members on the project. Mrs& Lenygon's committee associates,
announced formally yesterday by the ~AID in New York, include Mrs&
Allen Lehman McCluskey and Stephen J& Jussel, both wellknown
Manhattan decorators. Regional representatives appointed to serve
from each section of the country include Frank E& Barnes of
Boston.
   PRESIDENT KENNEDY couldn't stay away from his desk for
the 75-minute young people's concert played on the White House lawn
yesterday by the 85-piece Transylvania Symphony Orchestra from Brevard,
N& C&. But he left the doors to his office open so he
could hear the music.   At 4 p& m& the President left the White
House to welcome the young musicians, students from the ages of
12 to 18 who spend six weeks at the Brevard Music Center summer camp,
and to greet the 325 crippled, cardiac and blind children from the
District area who were special guests at the concert.   It was
the first in the series of "Concerts for Young People by Young
People" to be sponsored by First Lady Jacqueline Kennedy at the
White House. She was not present yesterday, however, to enjoy the
music or watch the faces of the delighted audience.   She is vacationing
at the Kennedy summer home in Hyannis Port, Mass&, and in
his welcoming remarks, the President said he was representing her.
   As he approached the open bandstand, erected facing the South
entrance to the Executive Mansion, the band struck up the "Star Spangled
Banner" and followed it with "Hail to the Chief".
   "I think they played Hail to the Chief better than the Marine
Corps Band, and we are grateful to them", President Kennedy remarked
after mounting the bandstand and shaking hands with conductor
James Christian Pfohl.   AFTER PAYING tribute to the conductor
and his white-clad youthful students, President Kennedy said,
"As an American I have the greatest possible pride in the work that
is being done in dozens of schools stretching across the United States-
schools where devoted teachers are studying with interested
young men and women and opening up the whole wide horizon of serious music".
   He added "**h I think that sometimes in this country
we are not aware as we should be of the extraordinary work that
is being done in this field".   Displaying his knowledge of
music, the New England-born President remarked that "probably the
best chamber music in the world is played in Vermont, by young Americans-
and here in this school where they have produced extraordinary
musicians and teachers, and their work is being duplicated all across
the United States.   "This is a great national cultural asset,
and therefore it is a great source of satisfaction to me, representing
as I do today my wife, to welcome all of you here today at the
White House".   As he left the bandstand to return to his office,
the slender, sun-tanned Chief Executive paused along the way to
shake hands with the members of the audience in wheel chairs forming
the first row under the field tent set up for the guests.   He
expressed surprise to learn that pretty, blonde Patricia Holbrook, 16,
of Mount Rainier,
had attended the Joseph P& Kennedy School
for the Handicapped in Boston. "The nuns there do a wonderful work",
the President commented. Patricia now attends the C& Melvin
Sharpe Health School in the District.   Each of the children
invited to the concert wore a name tag marked with a red, white and
blue ribbon. They enjoyed lemonade and cookies served before and during
the concert by teenage sons and daughters of members of the White
House staff.   MANY of the music-loving members of the President's
staff gathered around the tent listening and watching the
rapt attention given by the young seated audience. And it turned out
to be more of a family affair than expected. Henry Hall Wilson, a
student at the music camp 25 years ago and now on the President's
staff as liaison representative with the House of Representatives, turned
guest conductor for a Sousa march, the "Stars and Stripes Forever".
   Transylvania Symphony Conductor Pfohl said yesterday that Mrs&
Kennedy's Social Secretary, Letitia Baldrige, told about
plans for White House youth concerts before the National Symphony
Orchestra League in Philadelphia last spring.   He said he contacted
a friend, Henry Hall Wilson, on the President's staff and
asked whether his orchestra could play, in the series. A flow of correspondence
between Pfohl and Miss Baldrige resulted in an invitation
to the 85-student North Carolina group to play the first concert.
   ONE OF THE MOST interested "students" on the tour which
the Brevard group took at the National Gallery yesterday following
their concert at the White House, was Letitia Baldrige, social
secretary to First Lady Jacqueline Kennedy.   "I was an art
major in college", Miss Baldrige explained. "I've been here
so many times I couldn't count them". She turned out to be a fan,
too, of Margaret Bouton, the Gallery's associate curator of education.
   Miss Bouton headed up one of the four groups that went
on simultaneous tours after the Gallery had closed at 5
p& m&.
The Brevard group of 85 arrived at the Gallery at 6 p& m&, remaining
for about 45 minutes.   The Brevard visitors had very little
to say at the beginning of the tour but warmed up later. They decided
that they thought Rembrandt's self-portrait made him look "sad"**h
they noticed Roman buildings in the background of Raphael's
"Alba Madonna" and "texture" in a Monet painting of Rheims
Cathedral. Everybody had heard of Van Gogh, the French impressionist.
   Gallery Director John Walker greeted the group, standing
on one of the benches in the downstairs lobby to speak to them.
He pointed out to the young musicians that the National Gallery "is
the only museum in the country to have a full-time music director
**h Richard Bales **h I'm sure you've heard af him **h and his
record, 'The Confederacy'".   Along with the gallery aide
who explained the various paintings and sculptures to each group, went
one of the Gallery's blue-uniformed guards.   In 45 minutes,
the Gallery leaders had given the students a quick rundown on art
from the Renaissance to the late 19th Century.   A few of them
said they "preferred contemporary art".   Among the other
artists, whose paintings were discussed were Boucher, Courbet, Fra
Angelico.   The thing that impressed one of the visitors the most
was the Gallery's rotunda fountain **h "because it's on the
second floor".
   That imposing, somewhat austere, and seemingly remote collonaded
building with the sphynxes perched on its threshold at 1733 16th st&
nw& took on bustling life yesterday.   More than 250 Scottish
Rite Masons and guests gathered in their House of the Temple
to pay tribute to their most prominent leader, Albert Pike, who headed
the Scottish Rite from 1859 to 1891.   They came together in
the huge, high-ceilinged Council Chamber to hear the late leader eulogized.
C& Wheeler Barnes of Denver, head of the Scottish Rite
in Colorado, praised Pike as a historian, author, poet, journalist,
lawyer, jurist, soldier and musician, who devoted most of his mature
years to the strengthening of the Masonic Order.   The ceremony
ended with the laying of a wreath at the crypt of Pike in the House
of the Temple. A reception and tea followed.   About 1500
delegates are expected to register today for the biennial session of the
Ancient and Accepted Scottish Rite for the Southern Jurisdiction
of the United States.   The opening session of the 5-day session
will begin at 10 a& m& today. There will be a pilgrimage to
Mount Vernon at 2:30 p& m&. A wreath will be placed at the
tomb of George Washington, one of this Nation's first Masons-
a past master of Washington-Alexandria Lodge 22 in Alexandria.
   THE MARRIAGE of John and Mary Black had clearly reached
the breaking point after eight years.   John had a job in a small
firm where the work was dull and monotonous. He would come home in
the evening tired and discouraged- in no frame of mind to play with
their three children, or spend much time chatting with his wife.
   Hurt by his lack of interest and attention, Mary complained often
that he didn't help around the house, and that he didn't really
care about the family. She accused him of ignoring her. He in turn told
her she demanded too much. They were both discouraged, disgusted
and miserable.   Mary decided she had had enough. Without any definite
plan in mind, she went to a judge to see what could be done. The
judge listened quietly as the young woman poured out her frustrations-
then discussing with her the possibility of seeking aid from
Family
Service before going to a lawyer.   Family Service, sharing
in ~UGF, has five agencies in the Washington area. They offer
to the people of this community case work service and counseling on
a wide variety of family problems.   Because neither of them really
wanted their marriage to break up, Mr& and Mrs& Black agreed
to a series of interviews at Family Service of Northern Virginia,
the agency nearest them. For nearly a year, they have been receiving
counseling, separately and together, in an effort to understand and
overcome the antagonisms which had given rise to the possibility of divorce.
The interviews have led each of them to a new appreciation of
the problems confronting the other. They are now working together toward
solving their difficulties.   JOHN received a promotion
in his firm. He gives credit for the promotion to his new outlook on
life. Mary is cheery and gay when her husband comes home in the evenings,
and the children's bed-time is frequently preceeded by a session
of happy, family rough-housing.   To outsiders, the Blacks seem
to be an ordinary, happy family, and they are- but with a difference.
They know the value of being just that- an ordinary, happy family.
   Family Service has helped hundreds of families in this
area. Perhaps to some their work does not seem particularly vital. But
to the families it serves, their help cannot be measured. Family Service
could not open its doors to a single family without the financial
support of the United Givers Fund.
   Anticipated heavy traffic along the Skyline Drive failed to
materialize yesterday, park rangers said, and those who made the trip
got a leisurely view of the fall colors through skies swept clear of haze.
#FOR CRUCIAL ENCOUNTER# One of the initial questions put to President
Kennedy at his first news conference last January was about his
attitude toward a meeting with Premier Khrushchev. Mr& Kennedy
replied:   @ "I'm hopeful that from @ more traditional
exchanges we can perhaps find greater common ground".   The
President knew that a confrontation with Mr& Khrushchev sooner or
later probably was inevitable and even desirable. But he was convinced
that the realities of power- military, economic and ideological-
were the decisive factors in the struggle with the Communists and that
these could not be talked away at a heads of government meeting. He
wanted to buy time to strengthen the U& S& and its allies and
to define and begin to implement his foreign policy.   Last Friday
the White House announced:   President Kennedy will
meet
with Soviet Premier Nikita S& Khrushchev in Vienna June 3 and
4.   The announcement came after a period of sharp deterioration
in East-West relations. The heightened tension, in fact, had been
a major factor in the President's change of view about the urgency
of a meeting with the Soviet leader. He was not going to Vienna
to negotiate- the simultaneous announcements in Washington and Moscow
last week stressed that no formal negotiations were planned. But
Mr& Kennedy had become convinced that a personal confrontation with
Mr& Khrushchev might be the only way to prevent catastrophe.
   That objective set the high stakes and drama of the Vienna meeting.
Despite efforts by Washington last week to play down the significance
of the meeting, it clearly was going to be one of the crucial encounters
of the cold war. @ #ROAD TO VIENNA# The U& S& and
Soviet heads of Government have met three times since Sir Winston
Churchill in 1953 introduced a new word into international diplomacy
with his call for a fresh approach to the problem of peace "at the
summit of the nations".   The first time was in 1955 when a
full-dress Big Four summit meeting produced the "spirit of Geneva".
The spirit served chiefly to lull the West while Moscow made inroads
into the Middle East.   In 1959 President Eisenhower
and Premier Khrushchev held an informal session in the U& S&.
That meeting produced the "spirit of Camp David"- a spirit, it
later turned out, that masked a basic misunderstanding about progress
toward a Berlin settlement.   On the third occasion- another
Big Four summit session at Paris a year ago- there was no problem
of an illusory "spirit". Premier Khrushchev wrecked the conference
at its initial session with a bitter denunciation of the U& S&
for the ~U-2 incident. The episode tended to confirm the U&
S& belief that propaganda, the hope of one-sided concessions, and
the chance to split the Allies, rather than genuine negotiation, were
the Soviet leader's real aims in summitry. #PRE-INAUGURAL POSITION#
Thus when Premier Khrushchev intimated even before inauguration
that he hoped for an early meeting with the new President, Mr&
Kennedy was confronted with a delicate problem. Shortly before his
nomination he had set forth his basic view about the problem of negotiations
with the Soviet leader in these words:   "As long
as Mr& Khrushchev is convinced that the balance of world power is
shifting his way, no amount of either smiles or toughness, neither Camp
David talks nor kitchen debates, can compel him to enter fruitful
negotiations".
   The President had set for himself the task, which
he believed vital, of awakening the U& S& and its allies to
the hard and complex effort necessary to shift that balance. He did
not want the effort weakened by any illusion that summit magic might make
it unnecessary. He wanted time, too, to review the United States'
global commitments and to test both the policies he had inherited
and new ones he was formulating. Above all, he did not want to appear
to be running hat in hand to Premier Khrushchev's doorstep. #ATTITUDE
FLEXIBLE# At the same time the President took pains not to
rule out an eventual meeting with the Soviet leader. Ideally, he knew,
it should be preceded by concrete progress at lower levels. But Mr&
Kennedy saw value even in an informal meeting, provided that undue
hopes were not raised in connection with it. It would give him an
opportunity to take the measure of his chief adversary in the cold war,
to try to probe Mr& Khrushchev's intentions and to make clear
his own views. Moreover, an eventual meeting was desirable if for no
other reason than to satisfy world opinion that the U& S& was not
inflexible and was sparing no effort to ease international tensions.
   Both elements- the caution about a meeting, the willingness
eventually to hold one- were reflected in a letter from the President
which Ambassador Llewellyn E& Thompson brought back to Russia
late in February. The letter, dated Feb& 22, was delivered to
Premier Khrushchev in Novosibirsk, Siberia, on March 9. It dealt
mainly with a broad range of East-West issues. But it also briefly
suggested the possibility of a meeting with Mr& Khrushchev before
the end of the year if the international climate were favorable and
schedules permitted.   Developments over the next two months, however,
caused the President to reconsider the question of the timing.
There were intense discussions in the inner councils of the White House
about the advisability of an early meeting, not because the international
climate was improving, but precisely because it was deteriorating
alarmingly. #DEADLOCK ON TESTS# The President was especially
concerned about the deadlock in the nuclear test ban negotiations at
Geneva. The deadlock has been caused by the Russians' new demand
for a three-man (East, West and neutral) directorate, and thus a veto,
over the control machinery. In the U& S&, strong pressures
have been building up for a resumption of tests on grounds that the Russians
may be secretly testing.   Mr& Kennedy was less troubled
by that possibility than by the belief that a Geneva breakdown,
or even continued stalemate, would mean an unchecked spread of nuclear
weapons to other countries as well as a fatal blow to any hope for disarmament.
There was reason to believe that Premier Khrushchev was
also concerned about a possible spread of nuclear weapons, particularly
to Communist China. The question arose as to whether a frank discussion
of that danger with the Soviet leader had not become urgent. Moreover,
Moscow appeared determined to apply the tripartite veto principle
to the executive organs of all international bodies, including
the U& N& Secretariat and the International Control Commission
for Laos. Mr& Kennedy was convinced that insistence on the demand
would make international agreements, or even negotiations, impossible.
   Developments in Cuba and Laos also suggested the advisability
of an early summit meeting. Initially the White House reaction
was that the bitter exchanges with Moscow over Cuba and the conflict
in Laos had dampened prospects for a meeting. At the same time,
there was increased reason for a quick meeting lest the Soviet leader,
as a result of those episodes, come to a dangerously erroneous conclusion
about the West's ability and determination to resist Communist
pressure.   In Cuba, the U& S& had blundered badly and
created the impression of impotency against Communist penetration even
on its own doorstep. In Laos, the picture was almost equally bad.
U& S& willingness to accept a neutral Laos may have led Premier
Khrushchev to believe that other areas could be "neutralized"
on Soviet terms. Beyond that, Allied disagreement about military intervention
in Laos- despite warnings that they might do so- allowed
Moscow to carry out with impunity a series of military and diplomatic
moves that greatly strengthened the pro-Communist forces. As a result,
the West is in a poor bargaining position at the current Geneva
negotiations on Laos, and South Vietnam and other nations in Southeast
Asia are under increased pressure.   In the light of those
events, there appeared to be a real danger that Premier Khrushchev
might overreach himself. Ambassador Thompson reported from Moscow
that the Soviet leader's mood was cocky and aggressive. He has indicated
that he plans new moves on Berlin before the year is out. The
President and his advisers felt that the time might have come to warn
Premier Khrushchev against a grave miscalculation in areas such
as Berlin, Iran or Latin America from which there would be no turning
back.   It was in the midst of such White House deliberations
that Premier Khrushchev on May 4 made new inquiries through the
U& S& Embassy in Moscow about a meeting with the President in
the near future. Mr& Kennedy told Moscow he would give his answer
by May 20 after consultation with the Allies. The response from
London, Paris and Bonn was favorable. Firm arrangements for the meeting
in Vienna were worked out in a final exchange between Moscow and
Washington last week. Apparently at the insistence of the U& S&,
the simultaneous announcements issued in Washington and Moscow
last Friday emphasized the "informal" nature of the meeting. The
Washington announcement said:   @ "The President and Chairman
Khrushchev understand that this meeting is not for the purpose
of negotiating or reaching agreement on the major international problems
that involve the interest of many other countries. The meeting
will, however, afford a timely and convenient opportunity for the first
personal contact between them and a general exchange of views on the
major issues which affect the relationships between the two countries".
@ #THE OUTLOOK# The Vienna meeting will bring together a
seasoned,
67-year-old veteran of the cold war who, in Mr& Kennedy's
own words, is "shrewd, tough, vigorous, well-informed and confident",
and a 44-year-old President (his birthday is May 29) with a
demonstrated capacity for political battle but little experience in international
diplomacy. The announcement last week of the forthcoming
encounter produced strong reactions in the U& S& of both approval
and disapproval.   The approval did not arise from an expectation
of far-reaching agreements at Vienna. The inclination was to accept
the statement that there would be no formal negotiations. But those
who were in favor of the meeting felt that a frank exchange between
the two men and an opportunity to size one another up would prove salutary.
Mr& Khrushchev is known to rely heavily on his instincts about
his adversaries and to be a shrewd judge of men. The feeling was
that he would sense an inner core of toughness and determination in the
President and that plain talk by Mr& Kennedy would give him pause.
   Apart from the personal equation, another reason advanced
in favor of the meeting was that too often in the past the U&S&
appeared to have been dragged reluctantly to the summit. Premier Khrushchev
has made propaganda capital out of that fact and in the end got
his summit meeting anyway. This time the initiative came, in part
at least, from Washington. #OTHER ALLIES CONSULTED# There was also
the fact that by the time he meets Mr& Khrushchev, the President
will have completed conversations with all the other principal Allied
leaders. Thus he will be in a position to disabuse the Soviet leader
of any notions he may have about grave Allied disunity.   Finally,
there was a wide area of agreement on the value of the President's
making a final effort in the summit spotlight for a nuclear test
accord. There is no single issue that has aroused stronger feelings
throughout the world. If tests are to be resumed, the argument went,
it is vital that the U& S& make plain that the onus belongs to
the Soviet Union.   Disapproval of the meeting was based largely
on the belief that the timing could hardly be worse. After Cuba
and Laos, it was argued, Mr& Khrushchev will interpret the President's
consent to the meeting as further evidence of Western weakness-
perhaps even panic- and is certain to try to exploit the advantage
he now believes he holds. Moreover, the President is meeting the
Soviet leader at a time when the Administration has still not decided
on the scope of America's firm foreign policy commitments. The
question was raised, for example, as to what attitude the President
would take if Mr& Khrushchev proposes a broad neutral belt extending
from Southeast Asia to the Middle East.
   THERE ARE, so my biologist friends tell me, mechanisms of
adaptation and defense that are just too complete and too satisfactory.
Mollusks are a case in point. The shell, which served the strain
so well at a relatively early stage in the evolutionary scheme, tended
to cancel out the possibility of future development. Though this may
or may not be good biology, it does aptly illustrate the strength and
the weakness of American Catholic higher education.   There can
be no doubt that the American Catholic accomplishment in the field
of higher education is most impressive: our European brethren never
cease to marvel at the number and the size of our colleges and universities.
The deeper wonder is how this miracle was accomplished in decades,
rather than in centuries and by immigrant minorities at that.
By way of explanation we ourselves are prone to imagine that this achievement
stems from the same American Catholic zeal and generosity which
brought the parochial school system into existence.   There
is, however, one curious discrepancy in this broad and flattering picture.
Viewing the American Catholic educational achievement in retrospect,
we may indeed see it as a unified whole extending from grade school
to university. But the simple truth is that higher education has
never really been an official American Catholic project; certainly
not in the same sense that the establishment of a parochial school
system has been a matter of official policy.   Official encouragement
is one thing, but the down-to-earth test is the allocation of diocesan
and parochial funds. American Catholics have responded generously
to bishops' and pastors' appeals for the support necessary to
create parochial schools but they have not contributed in a similar
fashion to the establishment of institutions of higher learning. They
have not done so for the simple reason that such appeals have hardly
ever been made. Diocesan authorities generally have not regarded this
as their direct responsibility.   All of this may be understandable
enough: it is, however, in fact difficult to see how diocesan
authorities could have acted otherwise. Yet for better or for worse,
the truth of the matter is that most American Catholic colleges do
<not> owe their existence to general Catholic support but rather to
the initiative, resourcefulness and sacrifices of individual religious
communities. Community <esprit de corps> has been the protective
shell which has made the achievement possible.   To understand
the past history- and the future potential- of American Catholic
higher education, it is necessary to appreciate the special character
of the <esprit d' corps> of the religious community. It is something
more than the arithmetical sum of individual totals of piety and
detachment. A religious community with a vital sense of mission achieves
a degree of group orientation and group identification seldom found
elsewhere. The fact that the group orientation and group identification
are founded on supernatural principles and nourished by the well-springs
of devotion simply give them a deeper and more satisfying dimension.
The net result is a uniquely satisfying sense of comradeship,
the kind of comradeship which sparks enthusiasm and blunts the cutting
edge of sacrifice and hardship.   American Catholic colleges
and universities are, in a very real sense, the product of "private
enterprise"- the "private enterprise" of religious communities.
Had it not been for such private enterprise, diocesan authorities
might of course have been goaded into establishing institutions subsidized
by diocesan funds and parish collections and staffed by religious
as paid employees. There is however no point in speculating about such
a possibility: the fact of the matter is that our institutions of
higher learning owe their existence to a spirit not unlike that which
produces the "family business". This "family-community" spirit
is the real explanation of the marvel of our achievement. ##
IT IS this spirit which explains some of the anomalies of American
Catholic higher education, in particular the wasteful duplication
apparent in some areas. I think for example of three women's colleges
with pitifully small enrollments, clustered within a few miles of
a major Catholic university, which is also co-educational. This is not
an isolated example; this aspect of the total picture has been commented
upon often enough. It would seem to represent <esprit de corps>
run riot.   Apart, however, from the question of wasteful duplication,
there is another aspect of the "family business" spirit
in American Catholic higher education which deserves closer scrutiny.
For while the past needs of the Church in this country may have
been adequately met by collegiate institutions, which in temper and tone
closely resembled junior colleges and finishing schools, it would
seem that today's need is for the college which more closely resembles
the university in its "pursuit of excellence". At the earlier
"pre-academic excellence" stage of Catholic education, the operation
could be conducted on an intra-mural community basis. But with today's
demand for professional qualifications and specialized training,
the need for "outsiders" become more pressing. ## THE PROBLEM
is not merely that more "outside teachers" are needed but
that a different brand is called for. Commenting on the earlier stage,
the Notre Dame Chapter of the American Association of University
Professors
(in a recent report on the question of faculty participation
in administrative decision-making) noted that the term "teacher-employee"
(as opposed to, e&g&, "maintenance employee") was
a not inapt description. Today however, the "outsider" is likely
to have professional qualifications of the highest order (otherwise
the college would not be interested in hiring him) and to be acclimatized
to the democratic processes of the secular or state university. And
while no one expects total democracy on the academic scene, the scholar
will be particularly sensitive to a line between first and second
class citizenship drawn on any basis other than that of academic rank
or professional achievement.   In the above mentioned report of
the Notre Dame Chapter of the American Association of University
Professors, the basic outlook of the new breed of lay faculty emerges
very clearly in the very statement of the problem as the members see
it: "Even with the best of intentions he (the President of the
university) is loath to delegate such authority and responsibility to
a group the membership of which, considered (as it must be by him) in
individual terms, is inhomogeneous, mortal and of extremely varying
temperament, interests and capabilities. It is natural that he should
turn for his major support to a select and dedicated few from the organization
which actually owns the university and whose goals are, in
their opinion, identified with its highest good and (to use that oft-repeated
phrase) 'the attainment of excellence'".   The pattern
here pictured is clearly not peculiar to Notre Dame: it is simply
that the paradox involved in this kind of control of the institution
by "the organization which actually owns" it, becomes more obvious
where there is a larger and more distinguished "outside" faculty.
It is particularly interesting that those who framed the report
should refer to "the organization which actually owns the university":
this seems to show an awareness of the fact that there is more
to the problem than the ordinary issue of clerical-lay tension. But
in any case, one does not have to read very closely between the lines
to realize that the situation is not regarded as a particularly happy
one. "Outside" faculty members want to be considered partners in
the academic enterprise and not merely paid employees of a family business.
   There are two reasons why failure to come to grips with
this demand could be fatal to the future of the Catholic university.
In the first place there is the obvious problem of recruiting high caliber
personnel. Word spreads rapidly in the tightly knit academic profession,
much given to attending meetings and conferences. Expressions
of even low-key dissatisfaction by a Catholic college faculty member
has the effect of confirming the already existing stereotype. In
the academic world there is seldom anything so dramatic as a strike or
a boycott: all that happens is that the better qualified teacher declines
to gamble two or three years of his life on the chance that conditions
at the Catholic institution will be as good as those elsewhere.
   To appreciate the nature of the gamble, it should be realized
that while college teaching is almost a public symbol of security,
that security does not come as quickly or as automatically as it does
in an elementary school system or in the Civil Service. Much has
been made of the fact that major Catholic institutions now guarantee
firm tenure. This is a significant advance but its import should not
be exaggerated. When a man invests a block of his years at a university
without gaining the coveted promotion, not only is he faced with the
problem of starting over but there is also a certain depreciation in
the market value of his services. A man does not make that kind of
gamble if he suspects that one or more of the limited number of tenure
positions is being reserved for members of the "family". ## JUST
AS IT is possible to exaggerate the drawing power of the new
tenure practices, it is also possible to exaggerate the significance
of the now relatively adequate salaries paid by major Catholic institutions.
Adequate compensation is indispensable. Yet adequate compensation-
and particularly <merely> adequate compensation is no substitute
for those intangibles which cause a man to sacrifice part of his
earning potential by taking up college teaching in the first place. Broadly
speaking the total Catholic atmosphere is such an intangible
but the larger demand is for a sense of creative participation and mature
responsibility in the total work of the university. Religious who
derive their own sense of purpose through identification with the religious
community rather than the academic community are prone to underestimate
both the layman's reservoir of idealism and his need for this
identification.   There is no need here to spell out the conditions
of creative teaching except to point out that, at the college
level, the sense of community and of community responsibility is even
more necessary than it is at other levels. The college teacher needs
the stimulus of communication with other faculty members but he also
needs to feel that such communication, even informal debates over the
luncheon table, are a contribution to the total good of the institution.
But this in turn means that decisions are not merely imposed from
the top but that there be some actual mechanism of faculty participation.
   The second reason for being concerned with the dichotomy
between faculty members who are part of the "in-group" that owns and
operates the institution and those who are merely paid employees, is,
therefore, the baneful effect on the caliber of the teaching itself.
This is a problem that goes considerably beyond questions of salary
and tenure. Yet though it may seem difficult to envision any definitive
resolution of the problem of ownership and control, there are nevertheless
certain suggestions which seem to be in order.   The first
is a negative warning: there is no point in the creation of faculty
committees and advisory boards with high-sounding titles but no real
authority. In the case of academic personnel the "feeling" of
participation can hardly be "faked". Competent teachers are well
versed in the technique of leading students to pre-set conclusions without
destroying the students' illusion that they are making their own
decisions. Those who have served as faculty advisers are too familiar
with the useful but artificial mechanisms of student government to
be taken in by "busy-work" and <ersatz> decision making.
In any case it is by no means clear that formally structured organs of
participation are what is called for at all. In the Notre Dame report,
reference was made to the fact that faculty members were reduced
to "luncheon-table communication". In itself there is nothing wrong
with this form of "participation": the only difficulty on the
Catholic campus is that those faculty members who are in a position
to implement policy, i&e&, members of the religious community which
owns and administers the institution, have their own eating arrangements.
SEN& JOHN L& McCLELLAN of Arkansas and Rep& David
Martin of Nebraska are again beating the drums to place the unions
under the anti-monopoly laws. Once more the fallacious equation is advanced
to argue that since business is restricted under the anti-monopoly
laws, there must be a corresponding restriction against labor unions:
the law must treat everybody equally. Or, in the words of Anatole
France, "The law in its majestic equality must forbid the rich,
as well as the poor, from begging in the streets and sleeping under
bridges".   The public atmosphere that has been generated which
makes acceptance of this law a possibility stems from the disrepute
into which the labor movement has fallen as a result of Mr& McClellan's
hearings into corruption in labor-management relations and, later,
into the jurisdictional squabbles that plagued industrial relations
at the missile sites. The Senator was shocked by stoppages over
allegedly trivial disputes that delayed our missile program. In addition,
disclosures that missile workers were earning sums far in excess
of what is paid for equivalent work elsewhere provoked his indignation
on behalf of the American taxpayer who was footing the bill.
It is now disclosed that the taxpayer not only pays for high wages, but
he pays the employers' strike expenses when the latter undertakes
to fight a strike. <Business Week> (Aug& 9, 1961) reports that
the United Aircraft Company, against which the International Association
of Machinists had undertaken a strike, decided to keep its plants
operating. The company incurred some $10 million of expenses attributable
to four factors: advertising to attract new employees, hiring
and training them, extra overtime, and defective work performed by
the new workers. The company has billed the United States Government
for $7,500,000 of these expenses under the Defense Department regulation
allowing costs of a type generally recognized as ordinary and
necessary for the conduct of the contractor's business.   Rep&
Frank Kowalski of Connecticut has brought this problem to the
attention of the Armed Services Committee. The committee remains unresponsive.
Neither has Congressman Martin nor Senator McClellan
been heard from on the matter; they are preoccupied with ending labor
abuses by extending the anti-monopoly laws to the unions. ## THE
RECENT publicity attending the successful federal prosecution
of a conspiracy indictment against a number of electrical manufacturers
has evoked a new respect for the anti-trust laws that is justified
neither by their rationale nor by the results they have obtained. The
anti-trust laws inform a business that it must compete, but along completely
undefined lines; it must play a game in which there never is
a winner. The fact is that any business that wants to operate successfully
cannot follow the law. Hypocrisy thus becomes the answer to a
foolish public policy.   Let us look at the heavy-electrical-goods
industry in which General Electric, Westinghouse and a number of
other manufacturers were recently convicted of engaging in a conspiracy
to rig prices and allocate the market. The industry is so structured
that price-setting by a multi-product company will vary with the way
overhead charges are allocated- whether marginal or average pricing
is applied.   The problem becomes even more complex where an enterprise
is engaged in the manufacture of a wide variety of other goods
in addition to the heavy electrical equipment. Accounting procedures
can be varied to provide a rationale for almost any price. Naturally,
enterprises of the size of General Electric are in a position to
structure their prices in such a way that the relatively small competitors
can be forced to the wall in a very short time. Should these giants
really flex their competitive muscles, they would become the only
survivors in the industry. Uncle Sam would then accuse them of creating
a monopoly by "unfair competition". But if they show self-restraint,
they don't get the orders.   Under the circumstances,
the only protection for the relatively small manufacturers is to engage
in exactly the kind of conspiracy with the giants for which the latter
were convicted. Engaging in such a conspiracy was an act of mercy
by the giants. The paradox implicit in the whole affair is shown by
the demand of the government, after the conviction, that General Electric
sign a wide-open consent decree that <it would not reduce prices
so low as to compete seriously with its fellows>. In other words,
the anti-trust laws, designed to reduce prices to the consumer on Monday,
Wednesday and Friday, become a tool to protect the marginal manufacturer
on Tuesday, Thursday and Saturday. And which theory would
govern the enforcers of the law on Sunday? ## THE QUESTION
might be asked: "Don't the managements of the heavy-electrical-goods
manufacturers know these facts? Why did they engage in a
flood of <mea culpas>, throw a few scapegoats to the dogs and promise
to be good boys thereafter, expressing their complete confidence in
the laws"?   The past usefulness of the anti-trust laws to
management was explained by Thurman Arnold, in <The Folklore of Capitalism>,
back in 1937. He wrote: "(P& 211) **h the anti-trust
laws were the answer of a society which unconsciously felt the need
of great organizations, and at the same time had to deny them a place
in the moral and logical ideology of the social structure. (P& 214)
**h anti-trust laws became the greatest protection to uncontrolled
business dictatorship. (P& 215) **h when corporate abuses were attacked,
it was done on the theory that criminal penalties would be invoked
rather than control. **h In this manner, every scheme for direct
control broke to pieces on the great protective rock of the anti-trust
laws. (Pp& 228-229) **h in any event, it is obvious that the anti-trust
laws did not prevent the formation of some of the greatest financial
empires the world has ever known, held together by some of the most
fantastic ideas, all based on the fundamental notion that a corporation
is an individual who can trade and exchange goods without control
by the government".   This escape from control has led to management's
evaluating the risk of occasional irrational prosecution as
worth while. A plea of <nolo contendere>, followed by a nominal fine,
after all is a small price to pay for this untrammeled license. (The
penalties handed out in the electrical case, which included jail
sentences, were unprecedented in anti-trust prosecutions, perhaps because
the conspirators had displayed unusual ineptness in their pricing
activities.)   If a substitute mechanism is needed for the control
of a fictitious impersonal market, quite obviously some method must
be devised for representing the public interest. A secret conspiracy
of manufacturers is hardly such a vehicle. However, one can argue that
no such control is necessary as long as one pretends that the anti-trust
laws are effective and rational. Quite clearly the anti-trust laws
are neither effective nor rational- and yet the argument goes that
they should be extended to the labor union.   THOSE WHO
favor placing trade unions under anti-trust laws imply that they are advocating
a brand new reform.   Before 1933, individuals who opposed
trade unions and collective bargaining said so in plain English.
The acceptance of collective bargaining as a national policy in 1934,
implicit in the writing of Section 7~A of the National Industrial
Recovery Act, has made it impolitic to oppose collective bargaining
in principle. The Wagner Act, the Taft-Hartley Act and the Landrum-Griffin
Act all endorse the principle of collective bargaining.
   The basic purpose of an effective collective-bargaining system
is the removal of wages from competition. If a union cannot perform
this function, then collective bargaining is being palmed off by organizers
as a gigantic fraud.   The tortured reasoning that unions
use to deny their ambition to exercise monopoly power over the supply
and price of labor is one of the things that create a legal profession.
The problem must be faced squarely. If laborers are merely commodities
competing against each other in a market place like so many bags
of wheat and corn (unsupported, by the way, by any agricultural subsidy),
then they may be pardoned for reacting with complete antagonism
to a system that imposes such status upon them.   Human labor
was exactly that- a commodity- in eighteenth- and nineteenth-century
America. As early as 1776, Adam Smith wrote in <The Wealth of
Nations>: "We have no acts of Parliament against combining
to lower the price of work; but many against combining to raise it".
Eighteenth-century England, upon whose customs our common law was
built, had outlawed unions as monopolies and conspiracies. In 1825,
the Boston house carpenters' strike for a ten-hour day was denounced
by the organized employers, who declared: "It is **h considered
that all combinations by any classes of citizens intended to **h effect
the value of labor **h tend to convert all its branches into monopolies".
   There were no pious hypocrisies then about being <for>
collective bargaining, but <against> labor monopoly. The courts
shared the opinion of the employers. In <People vs& Fisher>, Justice
Savage of the New York Supreme Court declared:   "Without
any officious and improper interference on the subject, the
price of labor or the wages of mechanics will be regulated by the demand
for the manufactured article and the value of that which is paid
for it; but the right does not exist to raise **h the wages of the mechanic
by any forced and artificial means".   Compare this statement
of a nineteenth-century judge with how Congressman Martin, according
to the <Daily Labor Report> of Sept& 19, 1961, defends
the necessity of enacting anti-trust legislation in the field of labor
"if we wish to prevent monopolistic fixing of wages, production or
prices and if we wish to preserve the freedom of the employer and his
employees to contract on wages, hours and conditions of employment".
   Senator McClellan is proposing the application of anti-trust
measures to unions in transportation. His bill, allegedly aimed at
Hoffa, would amend the Sherman, Clayton and Norris-LaGuardia acts
to authorize the issuance of federal injunctions in any transportation
strike and would make it illegal for any union to act in concert
with any other union- even a sister local in the same international.
   Paradoxically, the same week in which Senator McClellan was
attempting to extend the anti-trust act to labor in transportation,
the Civil Aeronautics Board was assuring the airlines that if they
met in concert to eliminate many costly features of air travel, the action
would not be deemed a violation of the anti-trust act. Indeed, it
is in the field of transportation that Congress has most frequently
granted employers exemption from the anti-trust laws; for example,
the organization of steamship conferences to set freight rates and the
encouragement of railroads to seek mergers. At the very moment that
every attempt is being made to take management out from under the irrationality
of anti-trust legislation, a drive is on to abolish collective
bargaining under the guise of extending the anti-monopoly laws to unions
who want no more than to continue to set wages in the same way that
ship operators set freight rates. ## THE passage of the
Sherman Act was aimed at giant monopolies. It was most effective against
trade unions. In the famous Danbury Hatters case, a suit was
brought against the union by the Loewe Company for monopolistic practices,
e&g&, trying to persuade consumers not to purchase the product
of the struck manufacturer. The suit against the union was successful
and many workers lost their homes to pay off the judgment.
   In 1914, the Clayton Act attempted to take labor out from under
the anti-trust legislation by stating that human labor was not to be
considered a commodity. The law could not suspend economics. Labor remained
a commodity- but presumably a privileged one granted immunization
from the anti-trust laws.   The courts, by interpretation,
emasculated the act. In 1922, the United Mine Workers struck the
Coronado Coal Company. The company sued under the anti-trust laws,
alleging that the union's activity interfered with the movement of
interstate commerce. (What other purpose could a striking union have
but to interrupt the flow of commerce from the struck enterprise?) The
court first ruled that the strike constituted only an indirect interference
with commerce.
#THE NATION# _THE THREE-FRONT WAR_ At a closed-door session
on Capitol Hill last week, Secretary of State Christian Herter made
his final report to the Senate Foreign Relations Committee on
U&S& affairs abroad. Afterward, Tennessee's Democratic Senator
Albert Gore summed it up for newsmen. What Herter presented,
said Gore, was "not a very encouraging review". That was something
of an understatement in a week when the underlying conflict between
the West and Communism erupted on three fronts. While Communists
were undermining United Nations efforts to rescue the Congo from chaos,
two other Communist offensives stirred the Eisenhower Administration
into emergency conferences and serious decisions. _1) CUBA._
Hours after a parade of his new Soviet tanks and artillery, Dictator
Fidel Castro suddenly confronted the U&S& with a blunt and
drastic demand: within 48 hours, the U&S& had to reduce its
embassy and consulate staffs in Cuba to a total of eleven persons (the
embassy staff alone totaled 87 U&S& citizens, plus 120 Cuban
employees). President Eisenhower held an 8:30 a&m& meeting with
top military and foreign-policy advisers, decided to break off diplomatic
relations immediately. "There is a limit to what the United
States in self-respect can endure", said the President. "That limit
has now been reached".   Through Secretary Herter, Ike
offered President-elect Kennedy an opportunity to associate his new
Administration with the breakoff decision. Kennedy, through Secretary-designate
of State Dean Rusk, declined. He thus kept his hands
free for any action after Jan& 20, although reaction to the break
was generally favorable in the U&S& and Latin America (<see>
THE HEMISPHERE). _2) LAOS._ After a White House huddle
between the President and top lieutenants, the Defense Department reacted
sharply to a cry from the pro-Western government of Laos that
several battalions of Communist troops had invaded Laos from North
Viet Nam. "In view of the present situation in Laos", said the
Pentagon's announcement, "we are taking normal precautionary actions
to increase the readiness of our forces in the Pacific". Cutting
short a holiday at Hong Kong, the aircraft carriers <Lexington>
and <Bennington> steamed off into the South China Sea, accompanied
by a swarm of destroyers, plus troopships loaded with marines.
On the U&S&'s island base of Okinawa, Task Force 116, made
up of Army, Navy, Marine and Air Force units, got braced to move
southward on signal.   But by week's end the Laotian cry of
invasion was read as an exaggeration (<see> FOREIGN NEWS), and
the U&S& was agreeing with its cautious British and French allies
that a neutralist- rather than a pro-Western- government might
be best for Laos. _FRENCH + INDIANS._ There was a moral of
sorts in the Laotian situation that said much about all other cold-war
fronts. Political, economic and military experts were all agreed that
chaotic, mountainous little Laos was the last place in the world
to fight a war- and they were probably right. "It would be like fighting
the French and Indian War all over again", said one military
man. But why was Laos the new Southeast Asian battleground?
   At Geneva in 1954, to get the war in Indo-China settled, the
British and French gave in to Russian and Communist Chinese demands
and agreed to the setting up of a Communist state, North Viet
Nam- which then, predictably, became a base for Communist operations
against neighboring South Viet Nam and Laos. The late Secretary
of State John Foster Dulles considered the 1954 Geneva agreement
a specimen of appeasement, saw that resolution would be needed to
keep it from becoming a calamity for the West. He began the diplomatic
discussions that resulted in the establishment of ~SEATO.
"The important thing from now on", he said, "is not to mourn the
past but to seize the future opportunity to prevent the loss in northern
Viet Nam from leading to the extension of Communism throughout
Southeast Asia".   Russian tanks and artillery parading through
the streets of Havana, Russian intrigue in the Congo, and Russian
arms drops in Laos (using the same Ilyushin transports that were
used to carry Communist agents to the Congo) made it plain once more
that the cold war was all of a piece in space and time. Soviet Premier
Khrushchev sent New Year's hopes for peace to President-elect
Kennedy, and got a cool acknowledgment in reply. Considering the
state of the whole world, the cold war's three exposed fronts did
not seem terribly ominous; but, in Senator Gore's words, it was
"not a very encouraging" situation that would confront John F&
Kennedy on Inauguration Day. #THE CONGRESS# _TURMOIL IN THE
HOUSE_ As the 87th Congress began its sessions last week, liberal
Democrats were ready for a finish fight to open the sluice gates controlled
by the House Rules Committee and permit the free flow of liberal
legislation to the floor. The liberal pressure bloc (which coyly
masquerades under the name Democratic Study Group) had fought the
committee before, and had always lost. This time, they were much better
prepared and organized, and the political climate was favorable.
They had the unspoken support of President-elect Kennedy, whose own
legislative program was menaced by the Rules Committee bottleneck.
And counting noses, they seemed to have the votes to work their will.
_DEADLY DEADLOCK._ There were two possible methods of breaching
the conservative barriers around the Rules Committee: 1) to pack
it with additional liberals and break the conservative-liberal deadlock,
or 2) to remove one of the conservatives- namely Mississippi's
14-term William Meyers Colmer (pronounced Calmer). Caucusing, the
liberals decided to go after Colmer, which actually was the more drastic
course, since seniority in the House is next to godliness.
   A dour, gangling man with a choppy gait, Colmer looks younger than
his 70 years, has gradually swung from a moderate, internationalist
position
to that of a diehard conservative. He is generally and initially
suspicious of any federal project, unless it happens to benefit his
Gulf Coast constituents. He is, of course, a segregationist, but
he says he has never made an "anti-Negro" speech. For 20 years he
has enjoyed his power on the Rules Committee. There his vote, along
with those of Chairman Howard Smith, the courtly Virginia judge,
and the four Republican members, could and often did produce a 6-6
deadlock that blocked far-out,
Democratic-sponsored welfare legislation
(a tactic often acceptable to the Rayburn-Johnson congressional leadership
to avoid embarrassing votes). _EQUAL TREATMENT._ There was
sufficient pretext to demand Colmer's ouster: he had given his
lukewarm support to the anti-Kennedy electors in Mississippi. Reprisals
are not unheard of in such situations, but the recent tendency has
been for the Congress to forgive its prodigal sons. In 1949 the Dixiecrats
escaped unscathed after their 1948 rebellion against Harry
Truman, and in 1957,
after Congressman Adam Clayton Powell campaigned
for Dwight Eisenhower in 1956, his fellow Democrats did not touch
his committee assignments, although they did strip him temporarily
of his patronage. (In the heat of the anti-Colmer drive last week,
Judge
Smith threatened reprisal against Powell. Said he: "We will
see whether whites and Negroes are treated the same around here".)
But Speaker Sam Rayburn, after huddling in Palm Beach with
President-elect Kennedy, decided that this year something had to be
done about the Rules Committee- and that he was the only man who could
do anything effective.   In a tense, closed-door session with
Judge Smith, Rayburn attempted to work out a compromise: to add
three new members to the Rules Committee (two Democrats, including
one Southerner, and one Republican). Smith flatly rejected the offer,
and Mister Sam thereupon decided to join the rebels. The next
morning he summoned a group of top Democrats to his private office and
broke the news: he would lead the fight to oust Colmer, whom he
is said to regard as "an inferior man".   News of
Rayburn's
commitment soon leaked out. When Missouri's Clarence Cannon got
the word, he turned purple. "Unconscionable"! he shouted, and
rushed off to the Speaker's Room to object: "A dangerous precedent"!
Cannon, a powerful, conservative man, brought welcome support
to the Smith-Colmer forces: as chairman of the Appropriations
Committee, he holds over each member the dreadful threat of excluding
this or that congressional district from federal pork-barrel projects.
Sitting quietly on an equally big pork barrel was another Judge
Smith ally, Georgia's Carl Vinson, chairman of the Armed Services
Committee. _THREAT OF WAR._ As the battle raged in the cloakrooms
and caucuses, it became clear that Judge Smith could lose. His
highest count of supporters numbered 72- and he needed nearly twice
that number to control the 260-member Democratic caucus. The liberals,
smelling blood, were faced with the necessity of winning three
big votes- in the Democratic Committee on Committees, in the full
party caucus, and on the floor of the House- before they could oust
Colmer. (One big question: If Colmer was to be purged, what should
the House do about the other three senior Mississippians who supported
the maverick electors?) In all three arenas, they seemed certain
of victory- especially with Sam Rayburn applying his whiplash.
   But in the prospect of winning the battle loomed the specter
of losing a costlier war. If the Southerners were sufficiently aroused,
they could very well cut the Kennedy legislative program to ribbons
from their vantage point of committee chairmanships, leaving Sam
Rayburn leading a truncated, unworkable party. With that possibility
in mind, Arkansas' Wilbur Mills deliberately delayed calling a
meeting of the Committee on Committees, and coolheaded Democrats sought
to bring Rayburn and Smith together again to work out some sort
of face-saving compromise. "Here are two old men, mad at each other
and too proud to pick up the phone", said a House Democratic leader.
"One wants a little more power, and the other doesn't want
to give up any". _BATTLE IN THE SENATE_ The Senate launched the
87th Congress with its own version of an ancient liberal-conservative
battle, but in contrast with the House's guerrilla war it seemed
as <pro forma> as a Capitol guide's speech. Question at issue:
How big a vote should be necessary to restrict Senate debate- and
thereby cut off legislation-delaying filibusters?   A wide-ranging,
bipartisan force- from Minnesota's Democratic Hubert Humphrey
to Massachusetts' Republican Leverett Saltonstall- was
drawn up against a solid phalanx of Southern Democrats, who have traditionally
used the filibuster to stop civil rights bills. New Mexico's
Clint Anderson offered a resolution to change the Senate's
notorious Rule 22 to allow three-fifths of the Senators present and
voting to cut off debate, instead of the current hard-to-get two-thirds.
Fair Dealer Humphrey upped the ante, asked cloture power for a
mere majority of Senators. Georgia's Dick Russell objected politely,
and the battle was joined.   Privately, the liberals admitted
that the Humphrey amendment had no chance of passage. Privately,
they also admitted that their hopes for Clint Anderson's three-fifths
modification depended on none other than Republican Richard Nixon.
In 1957 Nixon delivered a significant opinion that a majority of
Senators had the power to adopt new rules at the beginning of each
new Congress, and that any rules laid down by previous Congresses were
not binding.   Armed with the Nixon opinion, the Senate liberals
rounded up their slim majority and prepared to choke off debate
on the filibuster battle this week. Hopefully, the perennial battle
of Rule 22 then would be fought to a settlement once and for all. #REPUBLICANS#
_LAST ACT_ Since Election Day, Vice President
Richard Nixon had virtually retired- by his own wish- from public
view. But with the convening of the new Congress, he was the public
man again, presiding over the Senate until John Kennedy's Inauguration.
One day last week, Nixon faced a painful constitutional chore
that required him to officiate at a joint session of Congress to
hear the official tally of the Electoral College vote, and then to
make "sufficient declaration" of the election of the man who defeated
him in the tight 1960 presidential election. Nixon fulfilled his
assignment with grace, then went beyond the required "sufficient declaration".
   "This is the first time in 100 years that a candidate
for the presidency announced the result of an election in which
he was defeated", he said.
   The Masters golf tournament proved last Monday what it can do
to the strongest men and the staunchest nerves. Gary Player, the small,
trim South African, was the eventual winner, but in all his 25
years he never spent a more harrowing afternoon as he waited for the
victory to drop in his lap. Arnold Palmer, the defending champion, lost
his title on the 72nd hole after a few minutes of misfortune that
left even his fellow pros gaping in disbelief.   "Just when you
think you have it licked, this golf course can get up and bite you",
Player had said one afternoon midway through the tournament. And
that is just what happened on the last few holes. The Augusta National
Golf Club Course got up and bit both Player and Palmer.
   Player was the first to feel its teeth. After playing a splendid first
nine holes in 34- two strokes under par- on this fifth and final
day of the tournament (Sunday's fourth round had been washed out
by a violent rainstorm when it was only half completed), Player's
game rapidly fell to pieces. He bogeyed the 10th. After a journey through
woods and stream he double-bogeyed the 13th. He bogeyed the 15th
by missing a short putt and finally scrambled through the last three
holes without further mishap for a 2-over-par 74 and a 72-hole total
of 280.   As he signed his scorecard and walked off the course,
Player was almost in tears. He could read on the nearby scoreboard
that Palmer, by then playing the 15th hole, was leading him by a stroke.
Palmer had started the round four strokes behind Player, and at
one point in the afternoon had trailed by as many as six strokes. Now
all he had to do was finish in even par to collect the trophy and the
biggest single paycheck in golf.   When Palmer hit a good straight
drive up the fairway on the 72nd hole, he seemed to have the championship
won. But the seven-iron shot he used to approach the green
strayed into a bunker and lodged in a slight depression. In trying to
hit it out with a sand wedge Palmer bounced the ball over the green,
past spectators and down the slope toward a ~TV tower.   Afterwards,
Palmer told Charlie Coe, his last-round partner, that he
simply played the hole too fast. He did seem hasty on his second and
third shots, but then there was an agonizing wait of several minutes while
Coe graciously putted out, giving Palmer a chance to recover his
composure,
which he had quite visibly lost.   When the shaken Palmer
finally did hit his fourth shot, he overshot the hole by 15 feet.
Palmer was now putting merely for a tie, and Player, who was sitting
beside his wife and watching it all on television in Tournament Chairman
Clifford Roberts' clubhouse apartment, stared in amazement when
Palmer missed the putt.   Palmer's 281 for the four rounds
at Augusta was a comfortable four strokes ahead of the next closest
pro, but it was barely good enough for a second-place tie with Coe.
The lean and leathery Oklahoma amateur, who has been playing topnotch
tournament golf for many years, refused to let the Masters jitters
overtake him and closed the tournament with his second straight 69. #END
AT SEVEN# Until late last Saturday afternoon Palmer had played
seven consecutive rounds of golf at the Masters- four last year
and three this- without ever being out of first place. As evening
approached and Palmer finished his Saturday round with a disappointing
one-over-par 73, this remarkable record was still intact, thanks to
his Thursday and Friday rounds of 68 and 69. His three-round total
of 210 was three strokes better than the next best score, a 213 by Bill
Collins, the tall and deliberate Baltimorean who had been playing
very well all winter long.   But Palmer knew, as did everybody
else at Augusta, that his streak was about to be broken. Half an hour
after he finished his round, Player holed out at the 18th green with
a 69 and a three-round total of 206, four strokes ahead of Palmer.
   More than a streak had ended. Long after the erratic climate
and the washed-out final round on Sunday have become meteorological
footnotes, the 1961 Masters will be remembered as the scene of the
<mano a mano> between Arnold Palmer and Gary Player. Unlike most
such sports rivalries, it appeared to have developed almost spontaneously,
although this was not exactly the case.   When the winter
tour began at Los Angeles last January there was no one in sight to
challenge Palmer's towering prestige. As if to confirm his stature,
he quickly won three of the first eight tournaments. Player won only
one. But as the tour reached Pensacola a month ago, Player was
leading Palmer in official winnings by a few hundred dollars, and the
rest of the field was somewhere off in nowhere. On the final round at
Pensacola, the luck of the draw paired Palmer and Player in the same
threesome and, although it was far from obvious at the time, the gallery
was treated to the first chapter of what promises to be one of
the most exciting duels in sport for a long time to come.   On
that final Sunday at Pensacola neither Palmer nor Player was leading
the tournament and, as it turned out, neither won it. But whichever
of these two finished ahead of the other would be the undisputed financial
leader of the tour. Player immediately proved he was not in the
least awed by the dramatic proximity of Palmer. He outplayed Palmer
all around the course and finished with a tremendous 65 to Palmer's
71. Thereafter, until the Masters, Player gradually increased
his lead over Palmer in winnings and added one more tournament victory
at Miami. When they reached Augusta last week, together they had
won five of the 13 tournaments to date. #INSTANT RIVALRY# On Thursday,
the first day of the Masters, the contest between Palmer and
Player developed instantly. It was a dismal, drizzly day but a good
one on which to score over the Augusta National course. The usually
skiddy greens were moist and soft, so the golfers were able to strike
their approach shots boldly at the flag-stick and putt firmly toward
the hole without too much worry about the consequences. Palmer's 4-under-par
68 got him off to an early lead, which he shared with Bob Rosburg.
But Player was only one stroke back, with a 69.   Even
so, it was still not clear to many in the enormous horde of spectators-
unquestionably the largest golf crowd ever- that this tournament
was to be, essentially, a match between Palmer and Player. A lot
of people were still thinking about Jack Nicklaus, the spectacular
young amateur, who had a 70; or Ken Venturi, who had a somewhat shaky
72 but was bound to do better; or Rosburg, whose accurate short
game and supersensitive putter can overcome so many of Augusta's treacheries;
or even old Byron Nelson, whose excellent 71 made one
wonder if he had solved the geriatric aspects of golf. (On Thursday
nobody except Charlie Coe was thinking of Charlie Coe.)   On
Friday, a day as cloudless and lovely as Thursday had been gray and
ugly, the plot of the tournament came clearly into focus. Rosburg
had started early in the day, and by the time Palmer and Player were
on the course- separated, as they were destined to be for the rest
of the weekend,
by about half an hour- they could see on the numerous
scoreboards spotted around the course that Rosburg, who ended with a
73, was not having a good day.   As Player began his second round
in a twosome with amateur Bill Hyndman, his share of the gallery
was not conspicuously large for a contender. Player began with a birdie
on the first hole, added five straight pars and then another birdie
at the 9th. On the back nine he began to acquire the tidal wave of
a gallery that stayed with him the rest of the tournament. He birdied
the 13th, the 15th and the 18th- five birdies, one bogey and 12 pars
for a 68.   Starting half an hour behind Player in company with
British Open Champion Kel Nagle, Palmer birdied the 2nd, the
9th, the 13th and the 16th- four birdies, one bogey and 13 pars for
a 69. The roar of Palmer's gallery as he sank a thrilling putt would
roll out across the parklike landscape of Augusta, only to be answered
moments later by the roar of Player's gallery for a similar triumph.
At one point late in the day, when Palmer was lining up a 25-foot
putt on the 16th, a thunderous cheer from the direction of the 18th
green unmistakably announced that Player had birdied the final hole.
Without so much as a grimace or a gesture to show that he had noticed
(although he later admitted that he had) Palmer proceeded to sink
his 25-footer, and his gallery sent its explosive vocalization rolling
back along the intervening fairways in reply. #THE BOLDNESS OF CHAMPIONS#
Anyone who now doubted that a personal duel was under way
had only to watch how these exceptionally gifted golfers were playing
this most difficult golf course. It is almost axiomatic that golfers
who dominate the game of golf for any period of time attack their shots
with a vehemence bordering on violence. The bad luck that can so often
mar a well-played round of golf is simply overpowered and obliterated
by the contemptuous boldness of these champions. Bob Jones played
that way. Byron Nelson did, Hogan did. And last week at the Masters
Palmer and Player did.   As the third round of the tournament
began on Saturday and the duel was resumed in earnest, it was Player's
superior aggressiveness that carried him into the lead. This
day Palmer had started first. As Player stepped on the first tee
he knew that Palmer had birdied the first two holes and already was
2 under par for the day. Player immediately proceeded to follow suit.
In fact, he went on to birdie the 6th and 8th as well, to go 4 under
par for the first eight holes.   But Player's real test came
on the ninth hole, a downhill dogleg to the left measuring 420 yards.
He hit a poor tee shot, pulling it off into the pine woods separating
the 9th and first fairways. Having hit one of the trees, the ball came
to rest not more than 160 yards out. Player then had the choice of
punching the ball safely out of the woods to the 9th fairway and settling
for a bogey 5, or gambling. The latter involved hitting a full
four-wood out to the first fairway and toward the clubhouse, hoping to
slice it back to the deeply bunkered 9th green.   "I was hitting
the ball well", Player said later, "and I felt strong. When
you're playing like that you'd better attack".   Player attacked
with his four-wood and hit a shot that few who saw it will ever
forget. It struck the 9th green on the fly and stopped just off the
edge. From there he chipped back and sank his putt for a par 4.
   Palmer, meanwhile, had been having his troubles. They started on
the 4th hole, a 220-yard par-3. On this day the wind had switched 180`
from the northwest to the southeast, and nearly every shot on the
course was different from the previous few days. At the 4th tee Palmer
chose to hit a one-iron when a three-wood was the proper club, so
he put the ball in a bunker in front of the green. His bogey 4 on this
hole and subsequent bogeys at 5 and 7 along with a birdie at 8 brought
him back to even par.   Starting the second nine, Palmer was
already four strokes behind Player and knew it.
   When Mickey Charles Mantle, the New York Yankees' man
of muscle, drives a home run 450 feet into the bleachers, his feat touches
upon the sublime. When Roger Eugene Maris, Mantle's muscular
teammate, powers four home runs in a double-header, his performance
merits awe. But when tiny, 145-pound Albert Gregory Pearson of the
Los Angeles Angels, who once caught three straight fly balls in center
field because, as a teammate explained, "the other team thought
no one was out there", hits seven home runs in four months (three
more than his total in 1958, 1959, and 1960), his achievement borders
on the ridiculous. This is Baseball 1961. This is the year home runs
ranged from the sublime to the ridiculous.   It is the year when
(1) amiable Jim Gentile of the Baltimore Orioles ambled to the
plate in consecutive innings with the bases loaded and, in unprecedented
style, delivered consecutive grand-slam home runs; (2) Willie Mays
of the San Francisco Giants borrowed a teammate's bat and became
the ninth big leaguer to stroke four home runs in a game; (3) the
Milwaukee Braves tied a major-league record with fourteen home runs
in three games and lost two of them; and (4) catcher Johnny Blanchard
of the New York Yankees matched a record with home runs in four
successive times at bat, two of them as a pinch-hitter.   Pitchers
grumble about lively balls and lively bats, the shrinking strike
zone, and the fact that the knock-down pitch is now illegal. Experts
point to the thinning of pitching talent in the American League caused
by expansion. Whatever the reasons, not in 30 years has a single season
produced such thunderous assaults upon the bureau of baseball records,
home-run division.   Of all the records in peril, one stands
apart, dramatic in its making, dramatic in its endurance, and now,
doubly dramatic in its jeopardy. This, of course, is baseball's most
remarkable mark: The 60 home runs hit in 1927 by the incorrigible
epicure, the incredible athlete, George Herman (Babe) Ruth of the
Yankees.   Since 1927, fewer than a dozen men have made serious
runs at Babe Ruth's record and each, in turn, has been thwarted.
What ultimately frustrated every challenger was Ruth's amazing September
surge. In the final month of the 1927 season, he hit seventeen
home runs, a closing spurt never matched. #DOUBLE THREAT:#
Always,
in the abortive attacks upon Ruth's record, one man alone- a
Jimmy Foxx (58 in 1932) or a Hank Greenberg (58 in 1938) or a Hack
Wilson (56 in 1930)- made the bid. But now, for the first time
since Lou Gehrig (with 47 home runs) spurred Ruth on in 1927, two men
playing for the same team have zeroed in on 60. Their names are Mantle
and Maris, their team is the Yankees, and their threat is real.
   After 108 games in 1927, Ruth had 35 home runs. After 108
games in 1961, Mickey Mantle has 43, Roger Maris 41. Extend Mantle's
and Maris's present paces over the full 1961 schedule of 162
games, and, mathematically, each will hit more than 60 home runs. This
is the
great edge the two Yankees have going for them. To better Ruth's
mark, neither needs a spectacular September flourish. All Mantle
needs is eight more home runs in August and ten in September,
and he will establish a new record. In Ruth's day- and until this
year- the schedule was 154 games. Baseball commissioner Ford Frick
has ruled that Ruth's record will remain official unless it is
broken in 154 games.)   "Even on the basis of 154 games, this
is the ideal situation", insists Hank Greenberg, now vice-president
of the Chicago White Sox. "It has to be easier with two of them.
How can you walk Maris to get to Mantle"? #ROOMMATES:#
Neither Mantle nor Maris, understandably, will predict 60 home runs
for himself. Although both concede they would like to hit 60, they
stick primarily to the baseball player's standard quote: "The
important thing is to win the pennant". But one thing is for certain:
There is no dissension between Mantle, the American League's
Most Valuable Player in 1956 and 1957, and Maris, the ~MVP
in 1960. Each enjoys seeing the other hit home runs ("I hope Roger
hits 80", Mantle says), and each enjoys even more seeing himself
hit home runs ("and I hope I hit 81").   The sluggers get
along so well in fact, that with their families at home for the summer
(Mantle's in Dallas, Maris's in Kansas City), they are rooming
together. Mantle, Maris, and Bob Cerv, a utility outfielder, share
an apartment in Jamaica, Long Island, not far from New York
International Airport. The three pay $251 a month for four rooms (kitchen,
dining room, living room, and bedroom), with air-conditioning
and new modern furniture. Mantle and Cerv use the twin beds in the bedroom;
Maris sleeps on a green studio couch in the living room. They
divide up the household chores: Cerv does most of the cooking (breakfast
and sandwich snacks, with dinner out), Mantle supplies the
transportation (a white 1961 Oldsmobile convertible), and Maris drives
the 25-minute course from the apartment house to Yankee Stadium.
Mantle, Maris, and Cerv probably share one major-league record already:
Among them, they have fifteen children- eight for Cerv, four
for Mantle, and three for Maris.   As roommates, teammates,
and home-run mates, Mantle, 29, who broke in with the Yankees ten years
ago, and Maris, 26, who came to the Yankees from Kansas City
two years ago, have strikingly similar backgrounds. Both were scholastic
stars in football, basketball, and baseball (Mantle in Commerce,
Okla&, Maris in Fargo, N&D&); as halfbacks, both came close
to playing football at the University of Oklahoma ("Sometimes
in the minors", Maris recalls, "I wished I had gone to Oklahoma").
   To an extent, the two even look alike. Both have blue
eyes and short blond hair. Both are 6 feet tall and weigh between 195
and 200 pounds, but Mantle, incredibly muscular (he has a 17-1/2-inch
neck), looks bigger. With their huge backs and overdeveloped shoulders,
both must have their clothes made to order. Maris purchases $100
suits from Simpson's in New York. Mantle, more concerned with
dress, buys his suits four at a time at Neiman-Marcus in Dallas and
pays as much as $250 each. #LIGHT READING:# Neither Mantle nor
Maris need fear being classified an intellectual, but lately Mantle
has shown unusual devotion to an intellectual opus, Henry Miller's
"Tropic of Cancer". Mantle so appreciated Miller's delicate
literary style that he broadened teammates' minds by reading sensitive
passages aloud during road trips.   Mantle is not normally
given to public speaking- or, for that matter, to private speaking.
"What do you and Mickey talk about at home"? a reporter asked
Maris recently.   "To tell you the truth", Maris said, "Mickey
don't talk much".   This is no surprising trait for
a ballplayer. What is surprising and pleasant is that Mantle and Maris,
under constant pressure from writers and photographers, are trying
to be cooperative.   Of the two, Mantle is by nature the less
outgoing, Maris the more outspoken. But last week, when a reporter
was standing near Mantle's locker, Mickey walked up and volunteered
an anecdote. "See that kid"? he said, pointing to a dark-haired
11-year-old boy. "That's [Yogi] Berra's. I'll never
forget one time I struck out three times, dropped a fly ball, and we
lost the game. I came back, sitting by my locker, feeling real low,
and the kid walks over to me, looks up, and says: 'You stunk'".
   Maris, in talking to reporters, tries to answer all questions
candidly and fully, but on rare occasions, he shuns newsmen. "When
I've made a dumb play", he says, "I don't want to talk to
anyone. I'm angry".   By his own confession, Maris is an
angry young man. Benched at Tulsa in 1955, he told manager Dutch Meyer:
"I can't play for you. Send me where I can play". (Meyer
sent him to Reading, Pa&.) Benched at Indianapolis in 1956,
he told manager Kerby Farrell: "I'm not learning anything on
the bench. Play me". (Farrell did- and Maris led the team to victory
in the Little World Series.) "That's the way I am",
he says. "I tell people what I think. If you're a good ballplayer,
you've got to get mad. Give me a team of nine angry men and I'll
give you a team of nine gentlemen and we'll beat you nine out of
ten times". #IDOLS' IDOLS:# One good indication of the two
men's personalities is the way they reacted to meeting their own heroes.
Maris's was Ted Williams. "When I was a kid", Maris
told a sportswriter last week, "I used to follow Williams every day
in the box score, just to see whether he got a hit or not".
   "When you came up to the majors, did you seek out Williams for advice"?
   "Are you kidding"? said Maris. "You're
afraid to talk to a guy you idolize".   Mantle's hero was Joe
DiMaggio. "When Mickey went to the Yankees", says Mark Freeman,
an ex-Yankee pitcher who sells mutual funds in Denver, "DiMaggio
still was playing and every day Mickey would go by his locker,
just aching for some word of encouragement from this great man, this
hero of his. But DiMaggio never said a word. It crushed Mickey.
He told me he vowed right then that if he ever got to be a star, this
never would be said of him". Mantle has kept the vow. Among all
the Yankees, he is the veteran most friendly to rookies.   Neither
Mantle nor Maris is totally devoted to baseball above all else.
If laying ties on a railroad track, which he once did for $1 an hour,
paid more than playing right field for the Yankees, Maris would
lay ties on a railroad track. If working in a zinc mine, which he once
did for 87-1/2 cents an hour, paid more than playing center field for
the Yankees, Mantle would work in a zinc mine. But since railroading
and mining are not the highest paid arts, Mantle and Maris concentrate
on baseball. They try to play baseball the best they can.
   Each is a complete ballplayer. Mantle, beyond any question, can
do more things well. ("One of the reasons they get along fine",
says a sportswriter who is friendly with the two men, "is that both
realize Mantle is head-and-shoulders above Maris".) Hitting,
Mantle
has an immediate advantage because he bats both left-handed and right-handed,
Maris only left-handed. They both possess near classic
stances,
dug in firmly, arms high, set for fierce swings. Mantle is considerably
better hitting for average (.332, fourth in the league, to .280
for Maris so far this year).   Both are good bunters: Maris
once beat out eighteen of nineteen in the minor leagues; Mantle
is a master at dragging a bunt toward first base. Both have brilliant
speed: Mantle was timed from home plate (batting left-handed) to
first base in 3.1 seconds, faster than any other major leaguer; Maris
ran the 100-yard dash in ten seconds in high school and once won a
race against Luis Aparicio, the swift, base-stealing shortstop of the
White Sox. Both are good, daring fielders: Mantle covers more
ground; Maris's throwing arm is stronger.   Yet with all their
skills, the appeal of Mantle and Maris in 1961 comes down to one
basic: The home run. With this ultimate weapon, the two Yankees
may have saved baseball from its dullest season. (American League expansion
created, inevitably, weaker teams. Only two teams in each league
[the Yankees and Detroit, the Dodgers and Cincinnati] are battling
for first place.   Appropriately, the emphasis on the home
run, at a peak this year, came into being at baseball's lowest moment.
In 1920, as the startling news that the 1919 White Sox had conspired
to lose the World Series leaked out, fans grew disillusioned
and disinterested in baseball. Something was needed to revive interest;
the something was the home run.
   Into Washington on President-elect John F& Kennedy's
Convair, the <Caroline>, winged Actor-Crooner {Frank Sinatra}
and his close Hollywood pal, Cinemactor Peter Lawford, Jack
Kennedy's brother-in-law. Also included in the entourage: a dog
in a black sweater, Frankie and Peter had an urgent mission: to stage
a mammoth Inauguration Eve entertainment gala in the capital's
National Guard Armory. Frankie was fairly glutted with ideas, as
he had hinted upon his arrival: "It's really tremendous when you
think Ella Fitzgerald is coming from Australia. I could talk to
you for three hours and still not be able to give you all of our plans"!
As the plans were laid, some several thousand fat cats were to
be ensconced in the armory's $100 seats and in 68 ringside boxes priced
at $10,000 each. The biggest single act would doubtless be staged
by Frankie himself: his Inaugural wardrobe had been designed by
Hollywood Couturier Don Loper, who regularly makes up ladies' ensembles.
Soon after Loper leaked the news that Frankie had ordered
"two of everything" just "in case he spills anything", Frankie
got so mad at the chic designer that he vowed he would not wear a stitch
of Loper clothing. @ ## A year after he was catapulted over
nine officers senior to him and made commandant of the Marine Corps,
General {David M& Shoup} delivered a peppery annual report
in the form of a "happy, warless New Year" greeting to his
Pentagon staff. Said Leatherneck Shoup: "A year ago I took the
grips of the plow in my hands. After pushing an accumulation of vines
and weeds from the moldboard, I lifted the lines from the dust and
found hitched to that plow the finest team I ever held a rein on. Little
geeing and hawing have been necessary". But Shoup also gave
the Corps a tilling in spots. Speaking of "pride", he deplored
the noncommissioned officer "whose uniform looks like it belonged to
someone who retired in 1940; the officer with the yellow socks or
the bay window. A few of these people are still around". @ ##
Old and new briefly crossed paths in the U&S& Senate, then
went their respective ways. At a reception for new members of Congress,
Oregon Democrat {Maurine Neuberger}, taking the Senate seat
held by her husband Richard until his death last March, got a brotherly
buss from Democratic Elder Statesman Adlai Stevenson, U&S&
Ambassador-designate to the U&N&. Meanwhile, after 24 years
in the Senate, Rhode Island's durable Democrat {Theodore
Francis Greene}- having walked, swum and cerebrated himself to
the hearty age of 93- left that august body (voluntarily, because he
could surely have been re-elected had he chosen to run again last November),
as the oldest man ever to serve in the Senate. @ ## The
most famous undergraduate of South Philadelphia High School is
a current bobby-sox idol, Dreamboat Cacophonist {Fabian} (real
name: Fabian Forte), 17, and last week it developed that he will remain
an undergraduate for a while. The principal of the school announced
that- despite the help of private tutors in Hollywood and Philadelphia-
Fabian is a 10-o'clock scholar in English and mathematics.
Lacking his needed credits in those subjects, Fabian will not
graduate with his old classmates next week. South Philadelphia High's
principal added that the current delay was caused by the "pressure"
of a movie that the toneless lad was making. @ ## To Decathlon
Man {Rafer Johnson} (TIME cover, Aug& 29), whose gold
medal in last summer's Olympic Games was won as much on gumption
as talent, went the A&A&U&'s James E& Sullivan Memorial
Trophy as the outstanding U&S& amateur athlete of 1960. As
the world's top sportsman-
pro or amateur- SPORTS ILLUSTRATED
tapped golf's confident Arnold Palmer (TIME cover, May
2), who staged two cliffhanging rallies to win both the Masters and
U&S& Open crowns,
went on to win a record $80,738 for the year.
@ ## Tooling through Sydney on his way to race in the New Zealand
Grand Prix, Britain's balding Ace Driver {Stirling Moss},
31, all but smothered himself in his own exhaust of self-crimination.
"I'm a slob", he announced. "My taste is gaudy. I'm
useless for anything but racing cars. I'm ruddy lazy, and I'm
getting on in years. It gets so frustrating, but then again I don't
know what I could do if I gave up racing". Has Moss no stirling
virtues? "I appreciate beauty". @ ## One of Nikita
Khrushchev's most enthusiastic eulogizers, the U&S&S&R&'s
daily <Izvestia>, enterprisingly interviewed Red-prone Comedian
{Charlie Chaplin} at his Swiss villa, where he has been in
self-exile since 1952. Chaplin, 71, who met K& when the Soviet boss
visited England in 1956, confided that he hopes to visit Russia
some time this summer because "I have marveled at your grandiose experiment
and I believe in your future". Then Charlie spooned out
some quick impressions of the Nikita he had glimpsed: "I was captivated
by his humor, frankness and good nature and by his kind, strong
and somewhat sly face".
   G& David Thompson is one of those names known to the stewards
of transatlantic jetliners and to doormen in Europe's best hotels,
but he is somewhat of an enigma to most people in his own home town
of Pittsburgh. There the name vaguely connotes new-rich wealth, a
reputation for eccentricity, and an ardor for collecting art. Last week,
in the German city of Du^sseldorf, G& David Thompson was
making headlines that could well give Pittsburgh pause. On display were
343 first-class paintings and sculptures from his fabled collection-
and every single one of them was up for sale.   Like Philadelphia's
late Dr& Albert C& Barnes who kept his own great collection
closed to the general public (TIME, Jan& 2), Thompson,
at 61, is something of a legend in his own lifetime. He made his
fortune during World War /2, when he took over a number of dying
steel plants and kept them alive until the boom. Even before he hit
big money, he had begun buying modern paintings. He gave the impression
of never having read a word about art, but there was no doubt that
he had an eye for the best.   He was able to smell a bargain-
and a masterpiece- a continent away, and the Museum of Modern Art's
Alfred Barr said of him: "I have never mentioned a new artist
that Thompson didn't know about". He might barge into a gallery,
start haggling over prices without so much as a word of greeting.
He could be lavishly generous with friends, cab drivers and bellboys,
but with dealers he was tough. He bought up Cezannes, Braques, Matisses,
Legers, a splendid Picasso series, more than 70 Giacometti
sculptures. He gathered one of the biggest collections of Paul Klees
in the world. All these he hung in his burglarproof home called Stone's
Throw, outside Pittsburgh, and only people he liked and trusted
ever got to see them.   Two years ago Thompson offered his
collection to the city. But he insisted that it be housed in a special
museum. Pittsburgh turned him down, just as Pittsburgh society had
been snubbing him for years. He went then to a 40-year-old Basel art
dealer named Ernst Beyeler, with whom he had long been trading pictures.
Last year Beyeler arranged to sell $1,500,000 worth of Klees
to the state of North Rhine-Westphalia, which will house them in
a museum that is yet to be built. Last week most of the other prizes,
once offered to Pittsburgh, went on the block.   At the opening
of the Du^sseldorf show, Thompson himself scarcely glanced at the
treasures that he was seeing together for the last time. In fact he
seemed delighted to get rid of them. Some observers speculated that
this might be his revenge on his home town. Thompson himself said:
"I want to enjoy once more the pleasure of bare walls waiting for new
pictures".
#BREAK IN GEORGIA# The University of Georgia has long claimed that
it does not discriminate against any applicant on the basis
of race or color. But in all its 175 years, not a single Negro
student has entered its classrooms. Last week Federal District Judge
William A& Bootle ordered the university to admit immediately
a "qualified" Negro boy and girl. Their entry will crack the
total segregation of all public education, from kindergarten through graduate
school, in Georgia- and in Alabama, Mississippi and South
Carolina as well.   For 18 months, Hamilton Holmes, 19, and
Charlayne Hunter, 18, had tried to get into the university. They graduated
together from Atlanta's Turner High School, where Valedictorian
Holmes was first in the class and Charlayne third. The university
rejected them on a variety of pretexts, but was careful never
to mention the color of their skins. Holmes went to Atlanta's Morehouse
(Negro) College, where he is a B+ student and star halfback.
Charlayne studied journalism at Detroit's Wayne State University.
Last fall, after they took their hopes for entering Georgia to
court, Judge Bootle ordered them to apply again.   Charlayne
was "tentatively" admitted for next fall, after state investigators
questioned her white roommate at Wayne State. But Holmes was rejected
again "on the basis of his record and interview". The evidence
in court was testimony about the interview, which for Holmes lasted
an hour, although at least one white student at Georgia got through
this ritual by a simple phone conversation. Holmes was asked if he
had ever visited a house of prostitution, or a "beatnik parlor or teahouse".
No, said he, but officials still called him "evasive".
They also said he lied in saying that he had never been "arrested".
Their reason: Holmes once paid a $20 speeding fine, had his license
suspended.   Negro lawyers dug into the records of 300 white
students, found that many were hardly interviewed at all- and few
had academic records as good as Hamilton Holmes. The real reason
for his rejection, they argued, is the fact that Georgia law automatically
cuts off funds for any desegregated school.   Judge Bootle's
decision: "The two plaintiffs are qualified for admission
to said university and would already have been admitted had it not been
for their race and color". The state will appeal- but few think
it will actually try to close the university. "Surprised and pleased",
Students Holmes and Hunter may enter the University of Georgia
this week. #CATCH FOR CHICAGO# When the University of
Chicago's Chancellor Lawrence A& Kimpton
submitted his resignation last March, a mighty talent hunt
gripped the Midway. Out went letters to 60,000 old grads, asking for
suggestions. Such academic statesmen as James B& Conant were consulted.
Two committees pondered 375 possible Kimpton successors, including
Adlai Stevenson, Richard Nixon, and Harvard's Dean McGeorge
Bundy. The debate led to a decision that Chicago needed neither
a big name nor an experienced academic administrator, but rather,
as Trustee Chairman Glen A& Lloyd put it, "a top scholar in
his own right"- a bright light to lure other top scholars to Chicago.
   Last week Chicago happily found its top scholar in Caltech's
acting dean of the faculty: dynamic Geneticist George Wells
Beadle, 57, who shared the 1958 Nobel Prize in medicine and physiology
for discovering how genes affect heredity by controlling cell
chemistry (TIME, Cover, July 14, 1958).   It fell to Chancellor
Kimpton, now a Standard Oil (Indiana) executive, to spend
his nine-year reign tidying up Chicago after the 21-year typhoon of
Idealist Robert Maynard Hutchins. He threw out some of Hutchins'
more wildly experimental courses, raised sagging undergraduate enrollment
to 2,100, nearly doubled endowment to $139.3 million. But though
Kimpton put Chicago in what he felt was working order, some old grads
feel that it still needs the kind of lively teachers who filled it
in the heady Hutchins era.   At Caltech, Geneticist Beadle
has stuck close to his research as head of the school's famous biology
division since 1946. But he has shown a sixth-sense ability to spot,
recruit and excite able researchers, and has developed unexpected
talents in fund raising and speech-making. Beadle is even that rare
scientist
who takes an interest in money matters; he avidly reads the
<Wall Street Journal>, and took delight in driving a $250 model ~A
Ford for 22 years, then selling it for $300.
   A philosopher may point out that the troubles of the Congo began
with the old Adam and consequently will never end. But a historian
might put his finger on a specific man and date, and hold out the hope
that the troubles will sometime pass away. The man was King Leopold
/2, of the Belgians, who in 1885 concluded that he had better
grab a colony while the grabbing was still good. By force, he took under
his protection, or stole, 900,000 square miles of wilderness in Central
Africa. This is an area nearly as large as Western Europe;
and it was filled then as now by quarreling tribes with no political
or historical unity. Its boundaries had nothing to do with geography
or ethnic groupings; they were determined by the points at which Leopold's
explorers and gunmen got tired of walking.   The population
of the Congo is 13.5 million, divided into at least seven major
"culture clusters" and innumerable tribes speaking 400 separate
dialects. The religions of the people include Christianity, Mohammedanism,
paganism, ancestor worship and animism. The climate ranges from
the steamily equatorial to the temperate. The hospitals contain patients
trampled by elephants or run over by sports cars. To make one
nation out of these disparities would be a problem large enough in any
case; it has been made far more difficult by what the Belgians have
done, or failed to do, in the Congo since 1885.   At first the
Belgian royal family administered the Congo as its own private property.
But by 1908 its record of brutality had touched the national conscience.
The Belgian government itself took over administration, commencing
a program of paternalism unmatched in the history of colonialism.
One definition of paternalism is "The principle or practice,
on the part of a government, of managing the affairs of a country in
the manner of a father dealing with his children". The honor of the
Belgians in this matter is not to be questioned- only their judgment.
Ordinarily a father permits his children to grow up in due time-
but when the colony received independence in 1960 the Congolese child,
if one imagines him to have been born in 1908, was 52 and had until
then been treated as an infant. ## The Belgians were interested
primarily in the economic development of the Congo, which is rich in
copper, tin, cobalt, manganese, zinc, and uranium, and cotton and palm
oil. The colony was administered from Brussels, with neither the
Congolese nor the resident Belgians having any vote. The beneficiaries
of this administration were a number of huge cartels in which both
individuals and the Belgian government itself held stock. In <Inside
Africa>, John Gunther describes one of these, the Societe Generale,
as "the kind of colossus that might be envisaged if, let us
say, the House of Morgan, Anaconda Copper, the Mutual Life Insurance
Company of New York, the Pennsylvania Railroad, and various
companies producing agricultural products were lumped together, with
the United States <government> as a heavy partner".   Had
they been truly ruthless, the Belgians might have exploited the Congolese
without compassion. But they were not. They provided a social
security system which covered all their African employes; their program
of mass medical care was doubtless the best on the continent;
they put much effort into public housing. They also instituted a ration
system under which all employers in the Congo were required to furnish
their employes with clothing and adequate food. But instead of
delivering the ration- either in actual commodities or in cash- at
intervals of perhaps two weeks or a month, the Belgians felt obliged
to dole it out more often. Would not the children, if they received all
their food on the first day of the month, eat it up immediately, and
later go hungry?   The Belgians also placed great emphasis
on education. During the 1950s there were as many as 25,000 schools in
the Congo. But almost all the schools were primary. The average Congolese
can do little more than puzzle out the meaning of "<la chatte>"
and "<le chien>" and write his name. Some schools were
technical- the Belgians needed carpenters and mechanics to help exploit
the land, and trained many. But they did not believe in widespread
secondary education, much less in college. It was their conviction
that the people should be "brought up together", a grade at a time,
until in some indefinite future some might be ready to tackle history,
economics and political science. Indeed, the Belgians discouraged
higher education, fearing the creation of a native intellectual elite
which might cause unrest. When the Congo received its independence
in 1960 there were, among its 13.5 million people, exactly 14 university
graduates. ## Why did the Belgians grant independence to a
colony so manifestly unprepared to accept it? In one large oversimplification,
it might be said that the Belgians felt, far too late, the
gale of nationalism sweeping Africa. They lacked time to prepare
the Congo, as the British and French had prepared their colonies. The
Congolese were clamoring for their independence, even though most
were unsure what it meant; and in Brussels, street crowds shouted,
"<Pas une goutte de sang!>" (Not one drop of blood!). The
Belgians would not fight for the privilege of being the detested pedagogue;
rather than teach where teaching was not wanted, they would
wash their hands of the mess. It is hard to blame them for this. Yet
there were other motivations and actions which the Belgians took after
independence for which history may not find them guiltless.
As the time for independence approached there were in the Congo no
fewer than 120 political parties, or approximately eight for each university
graduate. There were four principal ones. First, there were those
Congolese (among them Joseph Kasavubu) who favored splitting the
country into small independent states, Balkanizing it. Second, there
were those (Moise Tshombe) who favored near-Balkanization, a loose
federalism having a central government of limited authority, with
much power residing in the states. Third, there were those (notably Patrice
Lumumba) who favored a unified Congo with a very strong central
government. And fourth, there were moderates who were in no hurry
for independence and wished to wait until the Congo grew up. However,
the positions of all parties and leaders were constantly shifting.
   A final factor which contributed greatly to the fragmentation
of the Congo, immediately after independence, was the provincial structure
that had been established by the Belgians for convenience in administration.
They had divided the Congo into six provinces- Leopoldville,
Kasai, Kivu, Katanga, Equator and Eastern- unfortunately
with little regard for ethnic groupings. Thus some provinces contained
tribes which detested each other, and to them independence meant
an opportunity for war.   The Belgian Congo was granted its independence
with what seemed a workable Western-style form of government:
there were to be a president and a premier, and a bicameral legislature
elected by universal suffrage in the provinces. Well-wishers
around the world hoped that the Congo would quickly assume a respectable
position in the society of nations. If internal frictions arose,
they could be handled by the 25,000-man Congolese army, the <Force
Publique>, which had been trained and was still officered by white
Belgians. The president, Joseph Kasavubu, seemed an able administrator
and the premier, Patrice Lumumba, a reasonable man.   Twenty-four
hours after independence the wild tribesmen commenced fighting
each other. Presently the well-armed members of the <Force Publique>-
many of them drawn from savage and even cannibalistic tribes,
erupted in mutiny, rioting, raping and looting. Terror engulfed the thousands
of Belgian civilians who had remained in the country. The Belgian
government decided to act, and on July 10 dispatched paratroops
to the Congo. On July 11 the head of the mineral-rich province of
Katanga, Moise Tshombe, announced that his province had seceded from
the country. Confusion became chaos; each succeeding day brought
new acts of violence. Lumumba and Kasavubu blamed it all on the military
intervention by the Belgians, and appealed to the United Nations
to send troops to oust them. ## On July 14 the Security
Council-
with France and Great Britain abstaining- voted the resolution
which drew the U&N& into the Congo. Vague in wording, it
called for withdrawal of Belgian troops and authorized the Secretary-General
"to take the necessary steps **h to provide the [Congolese]
Government with such military assistance as may be necessary, until,
through the efforts of the Congolese Government with the technical
assistance of the United Nations, the national security forces
may be able, in the opinion of the Government, to meet fully their tasks
**h".   Secretary-General Hammarskjo^ld decided that it
would be preferable if the U&N& troops sent into the Congo were
to come from African, or at least nonwhite, nations- certainly not
from the U&S&,
Russia, Great Britain or France. He quickly
called on Ghana, Tunisia, Morocco, Guinea and Mali, which dispatched
troops within hours. Ultimately the U&N& army in the Congo
reached a top strength of 19,000, including about 5,000 from India
and a few soldiers from Eire and Sweden, who were the only whites.
   It took the U&N& three months to bring a modest form of
order to the Congo. The Belgians were reluctant to withdraw their troops
and often obstructed U&N& efforts. The wildly erratic nature
of Patrice Lumumba caused constant problems- he frequently announced
that he wanted the U&N& to get out of the Congo along with
the Belgians, and appealed to Russia for help. (However, there is
little evidence that the late Lumumba was a Communist. Before appealing
to the U&N& or to Russia, he first appealed to the U&S&
for military help, and was rejected.) Lumumba further complicated
the U&N&'s mission by initiating small "wars" with the
secessionist province of Katanga and with South Kasai which, under
Albert Kalonji, wanted to secede as well. Meanwhile Russia took every
opportunity to meddle in the Congo, sending Lumumba equipment for
his "wars", dispatching "technicians" and even threatening,
on occasion, to intervene openly.   But by the end of the three-month
period, in October 1960, something approaching calm settled on
the Congo. President Kasavubu became exasperated with Lumumba and
fired him. Lumumba fired Kasavubu. Control of the government- such
control as there was and such government as there was- passed into
the hands of Joseph Mobutu, chief of staff of the Congolese army.
Mobutu promptly flung out the Russians, who have not since played any
significant part on the local scene, although they have redoubled their
obstructionist efforts at U&N& headquarters in New York.
The Belgians- at least officially- departed from the Congo as well,
withdrawing all of their uniformed troops. But they left behind
them large numbers of officers, variously called "volunteers" or
"mercenaries", who now staff the army of Moise Tshombe in Katanga,
the seceded province which, according to Tshombe, holds 65% of
the mineral wealth of the entire country.   From October 1960
to February 1961, the U&N& forces in the Congo took little action.
There was no directive for it- the Security Council's resolution
had not mentioned political matters, and in any case the United
Nations by the terms of its charter may not interfere in the political
affairs of any nation, whether to unify it, federalize it or Balkanize
it.   During the five-month lull, civil war smoldered and
flickered throughout the Congo. In February the murder of Patrice
Lumumba, who had been kidnaped into Katanga and executed on order of
Tshombe, again stirred the U&N& to action. On Feb& 21 the
council passed another resolution urging the taking of "all appropriate
measures to prevent the occurrence of civil war in the Congo, including
**h the use of force, if necessary, in the last resort". Although
the resolution might have been far more specific, it was considerably
tougher than the earlier one. It also urged that the U&N&
eject, and prevent the return of, all Belgian and other foreign military
and political advisers; ordered an investigation of Lumumba's
death; urged the reconvention of the Congolese Parliament and the
reorganization of the army.
#THE PRESIDENCY: TALKING AND LISTENING# Though President John
F& Kennedy was primarily concerned with the crucial problems of Berlin
and disarmament adviser McCloy's unexpected report from Khrushchev,
his new enthusiasm and reliance on personal diplomacy involved
him in other key problems of U&S& foreign policy last week.
   High up on the President's priority list was the thorny question
of Bizerte. On this issue, the President received a detailed
report from his U&N& Ambassador Adlai Stevenson, who had just
returned from Paris, and Mr& Kennedy asked Stevenson to search
for a face-saving
way- for both Paris and Tunis- out of the imbroglio.
Ideally, the President would like the French to agree on a "status
quo ante" on Bizerte, and accept a new timetable for withdrawing
their forces from the Mediterranean base. To continue their important
conversations about the Tunisian issue and the whole range of
other problems, Mr& Kennedy invited stevenson to Cape Cod for
the weekend.
   The President also discussed the Bizerte deadlock with
the No& 2 man in the Tunisian Government, Defense Minister Bahi
Ladgham, who flew to Washington last week to seek U&S& support.
The conversation apparently convinced Mr& Kennedy that the
positions of France and Tunisia were not irreconcilable. Through Ladgham,
Mr& Kennedy sent a message along those lines to Tunisian
President Habib Bourguiba; and one U&S& official said: "The
key question now is which side picks up the phone first".
   On the Latin American front, the President held talks with Secretary
of the Treasury Douglas Dillon before sending him to Uruguay
and the Inter-American Economic and Social Council (which the President
himself had originally hoped to attend). Main purpose of the
meeting: To discuss President Kennedy's Alliance for Progress.
   And that was not all. In conferences with Nationalist China's
dapper, diminutive Vice President Chen Cheng, Mr& Kennedy
assured Chiang Kai-shek's emissary that the U&S& is as
firmly opposed as ever to the admission of Red China to the United
Nations. Chen was equally adamant in his opposition to the admission
of Outer Mongolia; however the President, who would like to woo
the former Chinese province away from both Peking and Moscow, would
promise Chen nothing more than an abstention by the U&S& if Outer
Mongolia's admission comes to a vote.   The President
also conferred with emissaries from Guatemala and Nepal who are seeking
more foreign aid. To Africa, he sent his most trusted adviser,
his brother, Attorney General Robert Kennedy, on a good-will mission
to the Ivory Coast. All week long the President clearly was playing
a larger personal role in foreign affairs; in effect, he was practicing
what he preached in his Berlin message two weeks ago when he
declared:
"We shall always be prepared to discuss international problems
with any and all nations that are willing to talk, and listen, with
reason". #CRIME: 'SKYJACKED'# From International Airport
in Los Angeles to International Airport in Houston, as the
great four-jet Boeing 707 flies, is a routine five hours and 25 minutes,
including stopovers at Phoenix, El Paso, and San Antonio. When
Continental Airlines night-coach Flight 54 took off at 11:30 one
night last week, there was no reason to think it would take any longer.
   The plane put down on schedule at 1:35 a&m& in Phoenix.
Thirty-one minutes later, when it took off for El Paso, hardly
anyone of the crew of six or the 65 other passengers paid any attention
to the man and teen-age boy who had come aboard. At 3:58 a&m&,
with the plane about twenty minutes out of El Paso, passenger Robert
Berry, a San Antonio advertising man, glanced up and saw the
man and boy, accompanied by a stewardess, walking up the aisle toward
the cockpit. "The man was bent over with his hand on his stomach",
Berry said. "I figured he was sick".   John Salvador, a
farmer from Palm Desert, Calif&, was sitting up front and could
see through the door as the trio entered the cockpit. "The kid had
a .45 automatic, like they issue in the Army", he said. "The other
fellow had a .38". Salvador saw the youth hold his .45 against the
head of stewardess Lois Carnegey; the man put his .38 at the head
of Capt& Byron D& Rickards.   To Rickards, a 52-year-old
veteran 30 years in the air, it was an old story: His plane was
being hijacked in mid-flight again much as it had happened in 1930, when
Peruvian rebels made him land a Ford tri-motor at Arequipa. But
last week's pirates, like the Cuban-American who recently hijacked
an Eastern Airlines Electra (NEWSWEEK, Aug& 7), wanted to
go to Havana. _STALLING:_ "Tell your company there are four
of us here
with guns", the elder man told Rickards. The pilot radioed
El Paso International Airport with just that message. But, he
told the "skyjackers", the 707 didn't carry enough fuel to reach
Havana; they would have to refuel at El Paso.   Most passengers
didn't know what had happened until they got on the ground.
Jerry McCauley of Sacramento, Calif&, one of some twenty Air Force
recruits on board, awoke from a nap in confusion. "The old man
came from the front of the plane and said he wanted four volunteers
to go to Cuba", McCauley said, "and like a nut I raised my hand.
I thought he was the Air Force recruiter".   What the man
wanted was four persons to volunteer as hostages, along with the crew.
They chose four: Jack Casey, who works for Continental Airlines
in Houston; Fred Mullen from Mercer Island, Wash&;
Pfc&
Truman Cleveland of St& Augustine. Fla&, and Leonard Gilman,
a former college boxer and veteran of the U&S& Immigration
Service Border Patrol. Everybody else was allowed to file off the
plane after it touched down at El Paso at 4:18 a&m&.
They found a large welcoming group- El Paso policemen, Border Patrol,
sheriff's deputies, and ~FBI men, who surged around the
plane with rifles and submarine guns. Other ~FBI men, talking with
the pilot from the tower, conspired with him to delay the proposed
flight to Havana. The ground crew, which ordinarily fuels a 707 in twenty
minutes, took fully three hours. Still more time was consumed while
the pilot, at the radioed suggestion of Continental president Robert
Six, tried to persuade the armed pair to swap the Boeing jet for
a propeller-driven Douglas ~DC-7.   Actually, the officers
on the ground had no intention of letting the hijackers get away with
any kind of an airplane; they had orders to that effect straight
from President Kennedy, who thought at first, as did most others, that
it was four followers of Cuba's Fidel Castro who had taken over
the 707. Mr& Kennedy had been informed early in the day of the
attempt to steal the plane, kept in touch throughout by telephone. At
one time, while still under the impression that he was dealing with a
Cuban plot, the President talked about invoking a total embargo on
trade with Cuba.   As the morning wore on and a blazing West Texas
sun wiped the shadows off the Franklin Mountains, police got close
enough to the plane to pry into the baggage compartment. From the
luggage, they learned that the two air pirates, far from being Cubans,
were native Americans, subsequently identified as Leon Bearden,
50-year-old ex-convict from Coolidge, Ariz&, and his son, Cody,
16, a high-school junior. _TENSION_ The heat and strain began
to tell on the Beardens. The father, by accident or perhaps to show,
as he said, "we mean business", took the .45 and fired a slug
between the legs of Second Officer Norman Simmons. At 7:30 a&m&,
more than three hours after landing, the Beardens gave an ultimatum:
   Take off or see the hostages killed.   The tower
cleared the plane for take-off at 8 a&m&, and Captain Rickards
began taxiing toward the runway.   Several police cars, loaded with
armed officers, raced alongside, blazing away at the tires of the
big jet. The slugs flattened ten tires and silenced one of the inboard
engines; the plane slowed to a halt. Ambulances, baggage trucks,
and cars surrounded it.   The day wore on. At 12:50 p&m&
a ramp was rolled up to the plane. A few minutes later, ~FBI agent
Francis Crosby, talking fast, eased up the ramp to the plane, unarmed.
While Crosby distracted the Beardens, stewardesses Carnegey
and Toni Besset dropped out of a rear door. So did hostages Casey,
Cleveland, and Mullen. That left only the four crew members, Crosby,
and Border Patrolman Gilman, all unarmed, with the Beardens.
The elder Bearden had one pistol in his hand, the other in a hip pocket.
Gilman started talking to him until he saw his chance. He caught
officer Simmons' eye, nodded toward young Bearden, and- "I
swung my right as hard as I could. Simmons and Crosby jumped the boy
and it was all over".   Frog-marched off the airplane at 1:48
p&m&, the Beardens were held in bail of $100,000 each on charges
of kidnapping and transporting a stolen plane across state lines.
(Bearden reportedly hoped to peddle the plane to Castro, and live high
in Cuba.) Back home in Coolidge, Ariz&, his 36-year-old wife,
Mary, said: "I thought they were going to Phoenix to look for
jobs". #CONGRESS: MORE MUSCLE# Taking precedence over all other
legislation on
Capitol Hill last week was the military strength of
the nation. The Senate put other business aside as it moved with unaccustomed
speed and unanimity to pass- 85 to 0- the largest peacetime
defense budget in U&S& history.   With the money all
but in hand, however, the Administration indicated that, instead of
the 225,000 more men in uniform that President Kennedy had requested,
the armed forces would be increased by only 160,000. The "hold-back",
as Pentagon mutterers labeled it, apparently was a temporary
expedient intended to insure that the army services are built up gradually
and, thus, the new funds spent prudently.   In all, the Senate
signed a check for $46.7 billion, which not only included the extra
$3.5 billion requested the week before by President Kennedy, but
tacked on $754 million more than the President had asked for. (The
Senate, on its own, decided to provide additional ~B-52 and other
long-range bombers for the Strategic Air Command.) The House, which
had passed its smaller appropriation before the President's urgent
call for more, was expected to go along with the increased defense
budget in short order.   In other areas, Congressional action last
week included:   @ The Senate (by voice vote) and the House
(by 224-170) passed and sent to the White House the compromise
farm bill which the President is expected to sign, not too unhappily.
   @ The Senate also voted $5.2 billion to finance the government's
health, welfare, and labor activities.   Debate on the
all-important foreign-aid
bill, with its controversial long-range proposals,
had just begun on the Senate floor at the weekend. White House
legislative aides were still confident the bill would pass intact.
#FOOD: STEW A LA MULLIGATAWNY# Most members of the U&S& Senate,
because they are human, like to eat as high on the hog as they
can. But, because they are politicians, they like to talk as poor-mouth
as the lowliest voter. As a result, ever since 1851 when the Senate
restaurant opened in the new wing of the Capitol Building, the senators
have never ceased to grumble about the food- even while they
opposed every move that might improve it.   Over the years, enlivened
chiefly by disputes about the relative merits of Maine and Idaho
potatoes, the menu has pursued its drab all-American course. Individual
senators, with an eye to the voters back home, occasionally introduced
smelts from Michigan, soft-shell crabs from Maryland, oysters
from Washington, grapefruit from Florida. But plain old bean soup,
served daily
since the turn of the century (at the insistence of the
late Sen& Fred Dubois of Idaho), made clear to the citizenry that
the Senate's stomach was in the right place.   In a daring
stroke, the Senate ventured forth last week into the world of haute
cuisine and hired a $10,000-per-year French-born maitre d'hotel.
   {Holders of toll-road bonds are finding improvements in monthly
reports on operation of the turnpikes}.   {Long-term trend
of traffic on these roads seems clearly upward. Higher toll rates
also are helping boost revenues}.   {Result is a better prospect
for a full payoff by bonds that once were regarded as highly speculative}.
   Things are looking up these days for many of the
State turnpikes on which investors depend for income from their toll-road
bonds.   traffic on nearly all the turnpikes has been growing.
That added traffic means rising streams of dimes and quarters at toll
gates.   As a result of the new outlook for turnpikes, investors
who bought toll-road bonds when these securities ranked as outright
speculations are now finding new hope for their investments.
   Another
result is that buyers are tending to bid up the prices of these
tax-exempt bonds.   Other tax-exempt bonds of State and local
governments hit a price peak on February 21, according to Standard
+ Poor's average. On balance, prices of those bonds have slipped
a bit since then. However, in the same three-month period, toll-road
bonds, as a group, have bucked this trend. On these bonds, price rises
since February 21 easily outnumber price declines. #TAX-FREE RETURNS.#
Investors, however, still see an element of more-than-ordinary
risk in the toll-road bonds. You find the evidence of that in the
chart on this page.   Many of the toll-road bonds still are selling
at prices that offer the prospect of an annual yield of 4 per cent,
or very close to that. And this is true in the case of some turnpikes
on which revenues have risen close to, or beyond, the point at which
the roads start to pay all operating costs plus annual interest on
the bonds.   That 4 per cent yield is well below the return to be
had on good corporation bonds. It's not much more, in fact, than
the return that is offered on U& S& Treasury bonds.   For
investors whose income is taxed at high rates, though, a tax-free yield
of 4 per cent is high. It is the equivalent of 8 per cent for an unmarried
investor with more than $16,000 of income to be taxed, or for
a married couple with more than $32,000 of taxed income. #SWELLING
TRAFFIC.# A new report on the earnings records of toll roads in the
most recent 12-month period- ending in February or March- shows
what is happening. The report is based on a survey by Blyth + Company,
investment bankers.   Nearly all the turnpikes show gains in
net revenues during the period.   And there is the bright note:
The gains were achieved in the face of temporary traffic lags late
in 1960 and early in 1961 as a result of business recession. Many
of the roads also were hit by an unusually severe winter.   Indication:
The long-term trend of turnpike traffic is upward.   Look,
for example, at the Ohio Turnpike. Traffic on that road slumped
sharply in January and February, as compared with those same months
in 1960. Then March brought an 18 per cent rise in net revenues-
after operating costs.   As a result, the road's net revenues
in the 12 months ending March 31 were 186 per cent of the annual interest
payments on the turnpike bonds. That was up from 173 per cent
in the preceding 12 months.   That same pattern of earnings shows
up on the Massachusetts Turnpike. Operating revenues were off in
the first three months of 1961, but up for the 12 months ending in March.
Costs were held down, despite a bitter winter.   For the
year, the road earned 133 per cent of its interest costs, against 121
per cent in the preceding period. The road's engineers look for further
improvement when the turnpike is extended into Boston. #SLOW SUCCESSES.#
Some turnpikes have not been in full operation long enough
to prove what they can do. The 187-mile Illinois State Toll
Highway,
for example, was not opened over its entire length until December, 1958.
In the 12 months ended in February, 1960, the highway earned enough
to cover 64 per cent of its interest load- with the remainder paid
out of initial reserves. In the 12 months ended in February, 1961,
this highway earned 93 per cent of its interest.   That improvement
is continuing. In the first two months of 1961, earnings of the
Illinois highway available for interest payments were up 55 per cent
from early 1960.   Success, for many turnpikes, has come hard.
Traffic frequently has failed to measure up to engineers' rosy estimates.
In these cases, the turnpike managements have had to turn to
toll-rate increases, or to costly improvements such as extensions or
better
connections with other highways.   Many rate increases already
have been put into effect. Higher tolls are planned for July 1,
1961, on the Richmond-Petersburg, Va&, Turnpike, and proposals for
increased tolls on the Texas Turnpike are under study. #EASIER
ACCESS.# Progress is being made, too, in improving motorists' access
to many turnpikes. The Kansas Turnpike offers an illustration.
Net earnings of that road rose from 62 per cent of interest requirements
in calendar 1957 to 86 per cent in the 12 months ended Feb& 28,
1961.   Further improvements in earnings of the Kansas Turnpike
are expected late in 1961, with the opening of a new bypass at Wichita,
and still later when the turnpike gets downtown connections in
both Kansas City, Kans&, and Kansas City, Mo&. Meanwhile, there
appears to be enough money in the road's reserve fund to cover
the interest deficiency for eight more years. #FOR SOME ROADS, TROUBLES.#
Investors studying the toll-road bonds for opportunities find
that not all roads are nearing their goals.   Traffic and revenues
on the Chicago Skyway have been a great disappointment to planners
and investors alike. If nothing is done, the prospect is that that
road will be in default of interest in 1962. West Virginia toll bonds
have defaulted in interest for months, and, despite recent improvement
in revenues, holders of the bonds are faced with more of the same.
   These, however, are exceptions. The typical picture at this
time is one of steady improvement.   It's going to take time
for investors to learn how many of the toll-road bonds will pay out in
full. Already, however, several of the turnpikes are earning enough
to cover interest requirements by comfortable margins. Many others are
attracting the traffic needed to push revenues up to the break-even
point.
## @ A top American official, after a look at Europe's
factories, thinks the <U&S& is in a "very serious situation"
competitively.>   <Commerce Secretary Luther Hodges,>
accompanied by a member of our staff, on May 10 toured plants of
two of Italy's biggest companies- <Fiat,> the auto producer,
and <Olivetti,> maker of typewriters and calculating machines.
   Our staff man cabled from Turin as follows-   "Follow
Secretary Hodges through the Fiat plant, and you learn this:
   "One, <modern equipment>- much of it supplied under the
Marshall Plan- enables Fiat to turn out 2,100 cars a day. About
half of these are exported.   "Two, <wage costs> are a fraction
of the U&S& costs. A skilled worker on the assembly line,
for example, earns $37 a week.   "Three, <labor troubles>
are infrequent. Fiat officials say they have had no strikes for more
than six years.   "Said Secretary Hodges: 'It's a tough
combination for the U&S& to face'.   <"Olivetti
had a special interest> for Hodges. Olivetti took over Underwood,
the U&S& typewriter maker, in late 1959. Within a year, without
reducing wages, Underwood's production costs were cut one third,
prices were slashed. The result has been that exports of Underwood
products have doubled.   "The Olivetti plant near Turin has
<modern layout, modern machinery.> The firm is <design-conscious,
sales-conscious, advertising-conscious.>   "Hodges is
trying
to get more foreign business to go to the U&S&. The inflow
of foreign capital would help the U&S& balance of payments.
   "Hodges predicted: 'I think we will see more foreign firms
coming to the U&S&.
There are many places where we can use their
vigor and new ideas'". ## @ <Foreign competition> has
become so severe in certain textiles that Washington is exploring new
ways of handling competitive imports.   The recently unveiled
<Kennedy moves to control the international textile market> can be
significant for American businessmen in many lines.   <Important
aspects> of the Kennedy textile plans are these:   <An
international conference> of the big textile-importing and textile-exporting
countries will be called shortly by President Kennedy.
   <Chief aims of the proposed conference> are worth noting.
   The U&S& will try to get agreement among the industrialized
countries to <take more textile imports> from the less-developed
countries over the years.   <Point is> that developing countries
often build up a textile industry first, need encouragement to
get on their feet. If they have trouble exporting, international bill
for their support will grow larger than it otherwise would.   <Idea
is> to let these countries earn their way as much as possible.
## @ At the same time, <another purpose> of the conference
will be to get certain low-wage countries to control textile exports-
especially dumping of specific products- to high-wage textile-producing
countries.   <Japan,> since 1957, has been "voluntarily"
curbing exports of textiles to the U&S&. <Hong Kong,
India and Pakistan> have been limiting exports of certain types
of textiles to Britain for several years under the "Lancashire Pact".
   None of these countries is happy with these arrangements.
   <The Japanese want to increase exports to the U&S&>
While they have been curbing shipments, they have watched Hong Kong
step in and capture an expanding share of the big U&S& market.
   <Hong Kong interests> loudly protest limiting their exports
to Britain, while Spanish and Portuguese textiles pour into
British market unrestrictedly.   <The Indians and Pakistanis>
are chafing under similar restrictions on the British market for
similar reasons.   <The Kennedy hope> is that, at the conference
or through bilateral talks, the low-wage textile-producing countries
in Asia and Europe will see that "dumping" practices cause
friction all around and may result in import quotas.   <Gradual,
controlled expansion> of the world's textile trade is what President
Kennedy wants. This may point the way toward international stabilization
agreements in other products. <It's an important clue
to Washington thinking.> ## @ Note, too, that the Kennedy
textile plan looks toward modernization or shrinkage of the U&S&
textile industry.   <"Get competitive or get out".> In
veiled terms, that's what the Kennedy Administration is saying to
the American textile industry. <The Government will help> in
transferring companies and workers into new lines, where modernization
doesn't seem feasible. <Special depreciation> on new textile machinery
may be allowed. <Government research> will look into new
products and methods.   <Import quotas aren't ruled out>
where the national interest is involved.   But the Kennedy Administration
<doesn't favor> import quotas. Rather, they are impressed
with the British Government's success in forcing- and helping-
the British textile industry to shrink and to change over to
other products.   What's happening in textiles can be <handwriting
on the wall> for other lines having difficulty competing with
imports from low-wage countries. ## @ Among the highest-paid workers
in the world are U&S& coal miners. Yet U&S& coal is
cheap enough to make foreign steelmakers' mouths water.   <Steel
Company of Wales,> a British steelmaker, wants to bring in
Virginia coal, cut down on its takings of Welsh coal in order to be
able to compete more effectively- especially in foreign markets.
   <Virginia coal,> delivered by ship in Wales, will be about
$2.80 a ton cheaper than Welsh coal delivered by rail from nearby mines.
   <U&S& coal is cheap,> despite high wages, because
of widespread mechanization of mines, wide coal seams, attactive rates
on ocean freight. Many of the coal seams in the nationalized British
mines are twisting, narrow and very deep.   <Productivity
of U&S& miners> is twice that of the British.   <Welsh
coal miners,> Communist-led, are up in arms at the suggestion that
the steel company bring in American coal. They threaten to strike.
   The British Government will have to decide whether to let
U&S& coal in. The British coal industry is unprofitable, has large
coal stocks it can't sell.
   EVERY library borrower, or at least those whose taste goes
beyond the five-cent fiction rentals, knows what it is to hear the librarian
say apologetically, "I'm sorry, but we don't have that
book. There wouldn't be much demand for it, I'm afraid".
   Behind this reply, and its many variations, is the ever-present budget
problem all libraries must face, from the largest to the smallest.
What to buy out of the year's grist of nearly 15,000 book titles?
What to buy for adult and child readers, for lovers of fiction and
nonfiction, for a clientele whose wants are incredibly diversified, when
your budget is pitifully small? Most library budgets are hopelessly
inadequate. A startlingly high percentage do not exceed $500 annually,
which includes the librarian's salary, and not even the New
York Public has enough money to meet its needs- this in the world's
richest city. The plight of a small community library is proportionately
worse.   Confronted with this situation, most libraries
either endure the severe limitations of their budgets and do what they
can with what they have, or else depend on the bounty of patrons and
local governments to supplement their annual funds. In some parts of
the country, however, a co-operative movement has begun to grow, under
the wing of state governments, whereby, with the financial help of the
state, libraries share their book resources on a county-wide or regional
basis.   New York State has what is probably the most advanced
of these co-operative systems, so well developed that it has become
a model for others to follow. Because it is so large a state, with
marked contrasts in population density, the organization of the New
York co-operative offers a cross-section of how the plan works. At
one extreme are the systems of upper New York State, where libraries
in two or more counties combine to serve a large, sparsely populated
area. At the other are organizations like the newly formed Nassau Library
System, in a high-density area, with ample resources and a rapidly
growing territory to serve.   Both these types, and those
in between, are in existence by reason of a legislative interest in libraries
that began at Albany as early as 1950, with the creation by the
legislature of county library systems financed by county governments
with matching funds from the state. It was a step in the right direction,
but it took an additional act passed in 1958 to establish fully
the thriving systems of today.   Under this law annual grants are
given to systems in substantial amounts. An earlier difficulty was
overcome by making it clear that individual libraries in any area might
join or not, as they saw fit. Some library boards are wary of the
plan. A large, well-stocked library, surrounded in a county by smaller
ones, may feel that the demands on its resources are likely to be too
great. A small library may cherish its independence and established
ways, and resist joining in a cooperative movement that sometimes seems
radical to older members of the board.   Within a system, however,
the autonomy of each member library is preserved. The local community
maintains responsibility for the financial support of its own library
program, facilities, and services, but wider resources and additional
services become available through membership in a system. All
services are given without cost to members. So obvious are these advantages
that nearly 95 per cent of the population of New York State
now has access to a system, and enthusiastic librarians foresee the day,
not too distant, when all the libraries in the state will belong to
a co-op. ## TO SET up a co-operative library system, the law
requires a central book collection of 100,000 nonfiction volumes as
the nucleus, and the system is organized around it. The collection may
be in an existing library, or it may be built up in a central collection.
Each system develops differently, according to the area it serves,
but the universal goal is to pool the resources of a given area for
maximum efficiency. The basic state grant is thirty cents for each
person served, and there is a further book incentive grant that provides
an extra twenty cents up to fifty cents per capita, if a library spends
a certain number of dollars.   In Nassau County, for example,
the heavily settled Long Island suburb of New York City, the
system is credited by the state with serving one million persons, a figure
that has doubled since 1950. This system, by virtue of its variety
and size, offers an inclusive view of the plan in operation.
   The Nassau system recognizes that its major task it to broaden reference
service, what with the constant expansion of education and knowledge,
and the pressure of population growth in a metropolitan area. The
need is for reference works of a more specialized nature than individual
libraries, adequate to satisfy everyday needs, could afford. Nassau
is currently building a central collection of reference materials
in its Hempstead headquarters, which will reach its goal of 100,000
volumes by 1965.   The major part of this collection is in the
central headquarters building, and the remainder is divided among five
libraries in the system designated as subject centers. Basic
reference
tools are the backbone of the collection, but there is also specialization
in science and technology, an indicated weakness in local libraries.
On microfilm, headquarters also has a file of the <New York
Times> from its founding in 1851 to the present day, as well as bound
volumes of important periodicals. The entire headquarters collection
is available to the patrons of all members on interlibrary loans.
   Headquarters gets about 100 requests every day. It is connected
by teletype with the State Library in Albany, which will supply any
book to a system that the system itself cannot provide. The books are
carried around by truck in canvas bags from headquarters to the other
libraries.   Each subject center library was chosen because
of its demonstrated strength in a particular area, which headquarters
could then build upon. East Meadow has philosophy, psychology, and
religion; Freeport houses social science, pure science, and language;
history, biography, and education are centered in Hempstead; Levittown
has applied science, business, and literature; while Hewlett-Woodmere
is the repository of art, music, and foreign languages.
The reference coordinator at headquarters also serves as a consultant,
and is available to work with the local librarian in helping to strengthen
local reference service.   This kind of cooperation is not
wholly new, of course. Public libraries in Nassau County have been
lending books to each other by mail for a quarter-century, but the system
enables this process to operate on an organized and far more comprehensive
basis. Local libraries find, too, that the new plan saves
tax dollars because books can be bought through the system, and since
the system buys in bulk it is able to obtain larger discounts than would
be available to an individual library. The system passes on these
savings to its members. Further money is saved through economy in bookkeeping
and clerical detail as the result of central billing.
   Books are not the only resource of the system. Schools and community
groups turn to the headquarters film library for documentary, art,
and experimental films to show at libraries that sponsor local programs,
and to organizations in member communities. The most recent film
catalogue, available at each library, lists 110 titles presently in the
collection, any of which may be borrowed without charge. This catalogue
lists separately films suitable for children, young adults, or adults,
although some classics cut across age groups, such as "Nanook
of the North", "The Emperor's Nightingale", and "The
Red Balloon". Workshops are conducted by the system's audio-visual
consultant for the staffs of member libraries, teaching them the effective
use of film as a library service.   The system well understands
that one of its primary responsibilities is to bring children
and books together; consequently an experienced children's librarian
at headquarters conducts a guidance program designed to promote well-planned
library activities, cooperating with the children's librarians
in member libraries by means of individual conferences, workshops,
and frequent visits. Headquarters has also set up a central juvenile
book-review and book-selection center, to provide better methods of
purchasing and selection. Sample copies of new books are on display
at headquarters, where librarians may evaluate them by themselves or in
workshop groups. Story hours, pre-school programs, activities with
community agencies, and lists of recommended reading are all in the province
of the children's consultant.   Headquarters of the Nassau
system is an increasingly busy place these days, threatening to expand
beyond its boundaries. In addition to the interlibrary loan service
and the children's program, headquarters has a public relations
director who seeks to get wider grassroots support for quality library
service in the county; it prepares cooperative displays (posters,
booklists, brochures, and other promotional material) for use in member
libraries; it maintains a central exhibit collection to share displays
already created and used; and it publishes <Sum and Substance>,
a monthly newsletter, which reports the system's activities to
the staffs and trustees of member libraries. The system itself is governed
by a board of trustees, geographically representing its membership.
   In Nassau, as in other systems, the long-range objective
is to bring the maximum service of libraries to bear on the schools, and
on adult education in general. Librarians, a patient breed of men
and women who have borne much with dedication, can begin to see results
today. Library use is multiplying daily, and the bulk of the newcomers
are those maligned Americans, the teen-agers. To them especially
the librarians, with the help of co-ops, hope they will never have to
say, "I'm sorry, we don't have that book".
   TODAY, more than ever before, the survival of our free society
depends upon the citizen who is both informed and concerned. The
great advances made in recent years in Communist strength and in our
own capacity to destroy require an educated citizenry in the Western
world. The need for lifetime reading is apparent. Education must not
be limited to our youth but must be a continuing process through our
entire lives, for it is only through knowledge that we, as a nation,
can cope with the dangers that threaten our society.   The desire
and ability to read are important aspects of our cultural life. We
cannot consider ourselves educated if we do not read; if we are not
discriminating in our reading; if we do not know how to use what we
do read. We must not permit our society to become a slave to the scientific
age, as might well happen without the cultural and spiritual restraint
that comes from the development of the human mind through wisdom
absorbed from the written word.   A fundamental source of knowledge
in the world today is the book found in our libraries. Although
progress has been made in America's system of libraries it still
falls short of what is required if we are to maintain the standards that
are needed for an informed America. The problem grows in intensity
each year as man's knowledge, and his capacity to translate such knowledge
to the written word, continue to expand. The inadequacy of our
library system will become critical unless we act vigorously to correct
this condition. There are, for example, approximately 25,000,000
people in this country with no public library service and about 50,000,000
with inadequate service. In college libraries, 57 per cent of the
total number of books are owned by 124 of 1,509 institutions surveyed
last year by the U&S& Office of Education. And over 66 per
cent of the elementary schools with 150 or more pupils do not have any
library at all. ## IN every aspect of service- to the public,
to children in schools, to colleges and universities- the library
of today is failing to render vitally needed services. Only public
understanding and support can provide that service.   This is
one of the main reasons for National Library Week, April 16-22, and
for its theme: "For a richer, fuller life, read"!
